Helm Minutes for 2017

December 14, 2017
Announcements
Helm Summit CFP is open (are we extending deadline?)
Helm 2.8 soon after Kubernetes 1.9 is released
Standup:
Justin:
Issue triaging
Michelle: KubeCon SIG-Apps meeting
Deployments with injected values about the environment
Helm summit planning and mailing list setup
Steve:
Lot of discussions a KubeCon
Internal discussions about Helm and security, maybe some afterward discussions
Looking over issue list
Matt Farina
Helm Status YAML/JSON output done
How to pass in custom user agents? (For CI)
OWNERS files for k/charts; instituting this as policy this week
All k8s org projects will now have stale issue closer
CircleCI fixed
Matt Butcher
KubeCon updates about SK, Alibaba, etc.
Suggest skipping meetings for rest of year
Matt Fisher
Alibaba: Using a forked Kubernetes with Helm
SIG-Apps Update and Deep Dive meetings: Good discussions on Helm dev summit, esp. On whether we should use CRDs
Looking at Adam’s PR for 1.9 support
Taylor
Focusing on Helm summit
Lots of sponsorship asks
Triaging CFPs with Fisher, Adam, Michelle on Dec. 15
Some PR triaging
Some ideas about CRDs that might prototype
Adam
PR for k8s 1.9
Heads up on remodeling of Kubernetes types
[Fisher volunteered to pair]
Discussion items
Helm Summit [Michelle]
Please submit CFPs https://helmsummitpdx-feb2018.splashthat.com/
Contact Taylor for CFP review
When do we want the CFP deadline?
Follow-up in the CFP discussion tomorrow
Helm security mailing list and email [Michelle]
Current: helm-security@deis.com
What do we want the new address to be? Security mailing list?
Google groups or mailman
Fisher: Mailman usage is common in open source communities
KubeCon update
Kubernetes upgrades for 1.9, and how this breaks/changes Helm

November 30, 2017
Announcements
Helm Summit venue is locked in: The Evergreen in Portland, OR.
21-22 February 2017
There’s space enough for 200 people or less. It’s “super cute.”
Nike is co-sponsoring with Microsoft. There or may not be Nike swag available.
Standup:
Taylor
Working through backlog of PRs.
Coordinating Nike side of sponsoring the summit.
Reviewing Michelle’s Tiller plugin.
Adam
KubeCon preparation.
Starting in on working on Kubernetes 1.9-related changes.
Brian


Steven
Discussing Tiller security with internal teams considering using Helm.
Michelle
Working on a plugin called “secure-tiller” to lock down Tiller for a particular Kubernetes namespace. It deploys Role and RoleBinding objects to restrict Tiller’s permissions. She’s soliciting feedback on whether this pattern and convention is helpful and desired.
Working on securing the venue for the Helm summit.
Matt Fisher
Triaging issues, including a few related to security.
gRPC upgrade
Should we wait until after KubeCon to release?
Helm version 2.8 would bring parity with Kubernetes version 1.9.
Matt Farina
Working on slides for presentation at KubeCon.
Sprig library interface oddities needed accommodation, for a pending release.
Matt Butcher
Cleared out PRs in the queue on Thanksgiving.
Published the secure Tiller/TLS configuration blog post.
There are coming changes to the Helm documentation site.
KubeCon and the Helm Team
Michelle is planning meetings, and wants to know who wants to participate.
Lots of people new to Helm will be there. Keep that in mind when pitching Helm.
Michelle is working on a “cheat sheet” to help explain what’s changing in Helm to keep pace with Kubernetes evolution.
We’d like to find people who are not maintainers to speak on their use of Helm.
Be on the lookout for experience reports, and encourage people to attend the Helm summit a couple of months later.
Discussion
Stepping down from core maintainership role gracefully: Introduce a new category for “emeritus” where one rescinds a previously-held voting role. Open an issue in which to discuss this procedure. The Kubernetes Steering Committee has guidelines that we could borrow.
There are parties that may show up at KubeCon that will paint the Helm community in a bad light. We’ve been improving the documentation in preparation.
Be professional, level-headed, and set a good example. Confrontation isn’t helpful. Matt Farina is willing to intervene and mediate.

Action Items:
Share documentation that addresses these concerns.

November 16, 2017
Announcements
Helm v2.7.2
Standup:
Taylor
Issue sherpa’ing
Bug reported with tiller memory leaks
Working with michelle on the helm dev summit
Adam
Released v2.7.1
Brian
Triage the TLS issue that was released in v2.7.2
Steven
Asked to place a discussion around pluggable tiller authentication backends
Michelle
Working on the helm dev summit side as usual
Been going through the UX for setting up RBAC
Matt Fisher
Triaged issues for v2.7.1
Peer reviewed the patch for v2.7.2
Matt Farina
Starting on work for helm status output as JSON
Discussion
Pluggable auth backends for tiller
IBM wants to integrate their authentication/authorization backend to front tiller
Some arch discussion around blocking direct access to tiller only to the authentication gateway
IBM would like to open a ticket to discuss this proposal
v2.7.3?
The patch looks good, but there are concerns around the grpc-go PR being backwards-incomaptible between Helm patch releases
November 9, 2017
Announcements
None for today
Standup:
Taylor
Looking at what items need to make it to the next Helm release
Reviewed the "symlink-walk" piece that we needed to remove because it was part of the facebook-go dependencies. Looking pretty good.
Matt Farina:
Moving charts to a model where owners will be able to make PRs themselves.
Still a little ways out to finalize this, since we need to move to Prow before this can happen
Justin:
Was Sherpa Tsar
Merged an example for overrides
Nikhil:
Working on new chart for Portus Registry
Will run it by folks once it's complete to get some feedback
Discussion Topics
Turning on RBAC by default (kensey - Issue 3098 in GitHub)
Chart PR that was reviewed - reformat chart using RBAC (enable/disable + service account)
Most of the other kubernetes teams have moved to use RBAC by default
Ideally make a decision on this by next dev-meeting
Helm Summit (Taylor)
Current dates were oo close to KubeCon, so makes sense to reschedule
Moved out to Feb 6th and 7th
CFP deadline to moved out to a week after KubeCon
The venue is still being finalized, should be safe to book travel once venue is finalized
Assignments for next week
Issue Sherrif - Taylor
Notes - Justin
Meeting Lead - <TBD>
November 2, 2017
Announcements
Microsoft folks will be away all next week
If you are a core maintainer and not already on the kubernetes-helm-core google group, please request access here
Helm Summit CFP is open. Submit a CFP to speak at the summit here
If you’re interested in helping with the schedule and sort CFP submissions, please contact Taylor Thomas
Plans to release a v2.7.1 sometime in the near future
Standups
Matt Farina
Got a few PRs merged on bringing out the app version and maintainer URL to Chart.yaml
Raised a question about charts should be mutable or not; kubernetes/charts are currently mutable
Matt Butcher
Got ChartMuseum into helm’s incubator with Matt Farina
Chatted with Farina about helm templating ideas
Plans this week are to continue with helm comunity stuff
Michelle
Reached out to Sarah (Kubernetes) and Dan (CNCF) to advise on where we should post community meeting recordings
Fisher
Issue queue triaging
Working on documentation
Need alias for security leaks
Taylor
Issue sherpa this week
Issue got dropped about deployments. One user is considering dropping helm due to this bug so we should strive to take a closer look into it
Finalizing some venue stuff for the dev summit, looks like it’s going to be in downtown portland
Adam
Worked on trying to tamper down the PR queue along with Fisher
Focusing on helping out Michelle on the helm dev summit
Michelle
Talking to lots of users last week on Helm
Posted the presentation on helm from last week so others can learn
Helm summit is on her list of TODOs: CFPs, venues, schedule etc.
Reached out to Sarah and Dan(?) on how we want to upload the helm dev summit videos
Justin
Jumped into the context deadline exceeded issue
Fisher has commented on that issue to *hopefully* move the conversation/troubleshooting forward
Steven
Helping people over the istio helm chart, how to get it installed into the cluster and how to add it to your own service using istio sidecar injection
Found a bug when submitting a chart with no objects caused an error; there’s an argument forming around a chart should be installable even if no resources are deployed
Discussion topics
What other mailing lists do we need other than Kubernetes-helm-core for core team communications?
Need alias for security leaks
Justin: should we pre-seed discussion about what is on the table for breaking changes in Helm 3?
We should rope in everyone on a 45 minute dev call to discuss what’s the scope of the project for helm 3, whether charts compatibility should break between Helm 2 and Helm 3, etc.
Should we discuss about the helm summit at KubeCon?
Yes
Assignments for next week
Issue Majaraja: Justin
Meeeting notes: Steven
Meeting lead: Taylor

October 26th, 2017
Announcements
Helm v2.7.0 was released this Monday
Helm v2.8.0 is planned to go out after Kubernetes 1.9 in December as agreed upon last meeting
Standups
Adam Reese
Released Helm v2.7
Brigade launch has been taking up most of his time this week
Matt Fisher
Also assisted with Helm v2.7 release
Steven Harris
Concerns around confusion with values.yaml -- there are a lot of different ways to configure values. --reuse-values, --set, changing values.yaml, `helm inspect values`
Taylor Thomas
Jumping back this week
Working on the helm summit, hopefully more progress next week
Needs some more help on reviewing CFPs for the summit: Fisher and Reese raised hands
Matt Farina
Has 2 PRs in helm related to charts
Adam said that he will get to reviewing them this week
Discussion topics
Fisher wants to propose a talk about how to propose and document new features in helm at the dev summit in Jan
One concern around Helm 3: chart compatibility. We should strive to be compatible with Helm 2 charts now that there are a lot of them
Steven brought up the discussion from this week’s SIG-Apps meeting from Brian Grant
Fisher and others will be attending the working group to discuss ideas proposed by Brian and see if these can be distilled into features for Helm 3 (or Kubernetes in general)
Assignments for next week
Issue sherpa: taylor
Meeting notes: fisher
Meeting lead: steven
October 19th, 2017
Announcements
Helm Summit Interest Survey is out: https://goo.gl/forms/UBTTS7JaoZpSzoar1
Cut the release for 2.7.0-rc1 - Thanks Fisher, Adam and Taylor
Standups
Matt Fisher
Helped out with the release
Tag was not being built on CircleCI, had to use API directly to cut the tag
Same issue happening on Draft so it might be something related
Currently looking through this issue to get tags to work again so we don’t have to do a manual API Post to build the tag
Planning on doing the release notes and documenting how to do that
Looking for any issues on the rc1 release but haven’t found any
If all looks well, we could release by next week
Michelle Noorali
Issue Maharani this week
Created a google group for the Helm core team
Sent out Helm Summit Survey to gauge people’s interest in attending
Link: https://goo.gl/forms/UBTTS7JaoZpSzoar1
44 responses so far
Sending out CFP form today for the Helm Dev Summit
Will create a google group for the Helm community at large
Venue is looking to have a max capacity of 200 at this time, looking at other options
Reach out to michelle if interested in setting schedule stuff for the summit
Date might be changing to Jan 16th/17th
Adam Reese
Issue grooming, PR reviews
Helped released 2.7-rc1
Justin Scott
This week want to participate more in helm
Interested in telepresence. Pretty cool, didn’t work
Taylor
More helm dev summit organizing
Matt Farina
Working with the charts team for loosening CI linter rules
Matt Butcher
Taylor had some impromptu helm things going
All the Helmettes went to the KubeCon after party together, from core maintainers to new users
Met with SK Telecom using Helm to deploy all their Openstack mega clusters
Lots of discussions around what people like and don’t like about Helm
Out on vacation next week
Bitnami announced their new Kubeapps product
Discussion topics
Kubernetes 1.9 planning
Wednesday December 13th
The rc1 is set for 12/6
Look at releasing helm 2.8 at the end of the year
Keep in mind KubeCon is Dec. 6-8
Helm 2.7.0 release date
Looking at Monday or Tuesday of next week if no issues arise before then
Venue options and preferences
Fisher said that he’s interested in seeing the Nike campus :3
Assignments for next week
Issue sherpa: Taylor
Meeting Notes: Matt Fisher
Meeting Leader:

October 12th, 2017
Announcements
Standups
Adam
K8s 1.8 support
Working with Matt Farina on some PRs, will be following up this week
Matt Fisher
Steven
Using helm around different environment-based values
Looking into/reading about the CronJob issue
Matt Butcher
Had a meeting with App Registry and ChartMuseum
Following up with ChartMuseum dev wants to put it into helm incubator
Outcome of the meetings was there was strong ChartMuseum as the backend and Monocular as the front-end for a chart repository experience
Launching new OSS so being busy for the next 2 weeks or so
Justin Scott
Playing around with telepresence (sorry Fisher) :P
Taylor
Issue sherpa this week
Trying to lasso issues into the 2.7 release, continuing to assist in the RC
Nick
Got helm/tiller merged into SUSE’s CaaS platform
Matt Farina
Submitted a preemptive bug fix
Updates on the charts repo: They are linting and running various static tests with Circle to automate all the things
Discussion
Secrets backend
Docs
Conversion from ConfigMaps to Secrets
Decision is to go ahead and merge and add documentation outside of PR
2.7 Release
Adam in charge of cutting release
K8s support again….We need to support 1.7 and 1.8, which means supporting 2 API versions for this release
This PR should probably be pulled off of 2.7 and fixed upstream
RC release date: Monday, Oct. 16th
Helm Summit
Figuring out final details about the venue, should have news in the next few weeks
FakeClient PR
Some input and help needed. We need to make sure we help quickly on this
Dashboard Authentication example
Steve saw some code with using user roles to allow better access. Not the best option, but other apps are progressing with authentication
See https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/pull/3025

Assignments for next week:
Issue Sherpa: Michelle
Meeting Lead: Fisher
Note taker: Steve
October 5th, 2017
Announcements
Helm v2.6.2
Standups
Matt Fisher
Cut v2.6.2 with help from Adam
Issue sherpa’ing
Adam Reese
Assisting Fisher on the Helm v2.6.2 release
Working on porting k8s 1.8 support on top of Helm. There’s some nil errors occurring during testing
Also an issue to do with docker/distribution in glide
Fisher mentions that there is an open PR to switch over to dep which may fix that
Taylor
Working on PR support for 2.7
Need to figure out the 2.7 release timeline
Want to get back on Helm commandeer stuff
Matt Butcher
Getting back onto the swing of things, been at conferences all last week
Working/chatting with the creator of ChartMuseum
Working with the service catalog team on sprig PRs which should get incorporated into Helm
Mike Goodness
Finished wrap-up on calico network policies at TicketMaster, so far so good
Should be able to spend some time reviewing community PRs on charts
Steven
Jail chart tiller?
Looking at checking tiller’s capabilities to check kubernetes api versions for conditional logic in charts
Brian
Just listening in this week
Justin
Working on different operators like prometheus
Matt Farina
Added CI to every chart PR, which runs `helm lint` on CircleCI
Get meetings for ChartMuseum, AppRegistry etc. to sort through all of this
Michelle (Matt Butcher speaking on behalf of her)
Working with karen on helm dev summit
Taylor is working with michelle on finding venues in portland
Working with Fisher on creating a Helm-dev google group for notes, voting etc.
Discussion
Helm 2.7 timeline
Butcher asks if there’s anything other than k8s 1.8 that should get in before we cut 2.7
Taylor mentions there’s the secrets backend that would be good to get in, but we’re still working on getting some documentation for that PR
Matt Farina relays community unrest around the release delay between a kubernetes release and a helm release supporting that kubernetes release
We should cut a release candidate once k8s 1.8 support is in Helm so users can test Helm on k8s 1.8 and try that out
Assignments for next week:
Issue Sherpa: Taylor (next week: michelle)
Meeting Lead: Adam
Note taker: Taylor
September 28th, 2017
Announcements


Standups
Taylor
Merged PRs that should be part of the patch release
Fisher
Issue sherping
Facebook Go deps not compatible with Apache v2 or MIT license - need to pull these out
Maciej
Getting back to Helm-y stuff
Resuming work on proposal of existing releases as chart deps
Ramp up review counts
Adam
Just getting back up to speed after being ill :(
Steven
Using Helm quite a bit, new clusters coming online
Scripts for installing and upgrading Helm
Justin
A couple issues
Working on galera cluster operator
Mike
Working with Calico network policies using a chart
Need to give the prometheus operator & alb ingress chart some love
Adnan
Something about CI?
Discussion
Facebook Go dependencies
Include in patch release 2.6.2?
Matt Farina: remove sooner than later
Cutting patch release
Some bug fixes still not merged
Taylor to create 2.6.2 milestone
Not sure we're in a position to release 2.7 next week
2.6.2 scheduled for tuesday or wednesday next week
Authentication webhook
Taylor to have chart to show for this
Moving to offline discussion
Declarative app management doc
Discussed WG formation SIG-CLI meeting
SIG-Apps and SIG-CLI effort, Helm should be involved
Assignments for next week:
Issue sherpa: Matt Fisher
Meeting lead: Steven
Note taker: Maciej
September 14, 2017
Announcements
Standups
Steven
Talked about application deployments using Helm and `kubectl rollout status`
Lypht
Asked about how to deploy charts sharing common values.yaml
Taylor mentions https://github.com/skuid/helm-value-store
Improved documentation on common charts?
Adnan talked about possibility of `helm create` pulling in the common chart
Mike
Working on maintaining Helm chart PRs
Working out the storageClass pattern for official charts
Working on high quality, solidly reproducible charts
Adnan
Did a webinar yesterday with Helm, went rather well
Matt Farina
Talked about chart repositories at the last SIG-Apps meeting
Different implementations: kubeless, app registry, traditional helm way
Private chart repositories: app registry vs. dockerhub style
Adnan: Perhaps incubate app registry as a Helm 3 “official” registry
Adnan: perhaps just remove the concept of `helm repo update` and a local index.yaml?
Spun out a larger discussion on Helm 3 chart hosting, migration paths for kubernetes/charts etc.
Justin
Issue triaging over the week
Matt Fisher
Issue triaging, assisting first-time contributors with their PRs
Discussion
Helm 3 chart hosting, as seen above
Should we come up with a proposal template for proposals?
Just want to push back-channel discussion over to the helm dev meetings, more lax proposals
Assignments for next week:
Issue sherpa: Justin
Meeting lead: Taylor
Note taker: Adnan
September 7, 2017 [Recording]
Announcements
If you need edit access to this doc, let Michelle know
2.6.1 was released!
Standups
Maciej
Worked on Rudder Federation
Proposal for having existing releases be dependencies
Adam
Issue sherpa for the week
Going to be looking at deployments not rolling
Starting work on k8s 1.8 for Helm
Butcher
Working on releasing new sprig version
Working with Openstack people on running Tiller as a DaemonSet
Did something else small :)
Michael
Lots of chart PRs
Michelle
Reviewing PRs (specifically Amanda’s PR for indexing nested charts)
Fisher
Reviewing PRs, merged Helm template into core
Should we add a kube version variable to template
Steven
Catching up on issues
Trying out ksonnet
Justin
Working on writing tests for recursive builds (taking over another PR)
Chart sorting
Taylor
PR reviews
Needs another review on https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/pull/2721
Demos
Helmet (Butcher)
An intellisense completion tool for Helm on the command line
https://github.com/technosophos/helmet
Discussion
Helm Summit
Possible location
Portland
Georgia
Happening in early January
Kube version in Helm template
Related PR: https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/pull/2898
We can mock things out like we do in tests. We would mock against the current kubernetes version we build against
Template is no longer just for debugging, but also for rendering templates. It isn’t a preferred use case, but we are ok with adding in flags to enable this functionality
Output formatting for Helm
This is a complex issue that Adam already tried
It might be cool to have, but there will be some work
The main benefit would be viewing what the release looks like from a machine readable standpoint
Helm dev meeting length
Meeting will now start at 9:15 and go for 45 minutes
Taylor to announce in channel
Assignments for next week:
Issue batman/butler: Butcher
Meeting moderator: Adam
Note taker: Fisher
August 31, 2017 [Recording]
Announcements
One PR merged for 2.6.1, need to discuss when we want to release
Standups
Fisher
Issue triaging, reviewing PRs. No significant feature work
Butcher
Asked about the `helm template` PR
Justin mentioned it’s ready for review but not merged yet
Working on chart stuff but not core Helm
Michelle
No issue updates for this week
Updated the Deis youtube channel playlist
Seeing if the channel playlist should live in CNCF or in the Kubernetes channel
Maciej
Working on federation rudder
Adam
Reviewed Maciej’s e2e PR, might want to hold off on merging until 2.6 is out to test tag release automation
Possibly merge after 2.6, then do a couple test tags to make sure it goes through the whole release pipeline without blocking the impending release
Brian
Not present
Taylor
Was the issue maharaj this week, kudos to fisher and justin for triaging issues this week
Doing PR reviews this week
Chatting about secrets backend for Tiller, due to the size needs he asked for another review from the core team
Robots are taking over Helm’s issue labels
Butcher’s saying that we’ve been pushing back on moving over to the kubernetes-helm org for a while
Any bots that are CNCF-related (like the CLA bot) could be pulled in once we move orgs
Going to move forward with seeing how we can configure the PR sizing bot and see how we deal with them moving forward
Lachie
Not present
Steven
Working on Helm adoption internally
Looking at integrating with artifactory
Over the weekend had some time to look at some of the issues and PRs
Adnan
In the community repo, there’s a PR for meeting notes to reference the single google doc (this one)
Discussion in the charts repo about moving away from annotations over to fields in the spec
Lots of people are adding network policy stuff which is nice to see
Justin
General issue triaging
Taking on the work for recursive build feature
Demos
Discussions
Helm 2.5.1 issues to cherry pick?
The subcharts being deleted when not present in requirements.yaml
Possibly adding in the regex case-sensitive issue on helm search? https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/pull/2876
Fixup with relative index.yaml https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/pull/2862
Planning for next week
Issues: Adam Reese
Meeting moderator: Maciej
Note taker: Taylor Thomas
August 24, 2017 [Recording]
No announcements
1 ticket for a 2.6.1 release, moving forward with 2.7.0
Standups
Fisher
Issue queue
Taylor
Working on scaffolding for helm commandeer
Identified bug on helm delete, community member took this on after
PR is out
Would warrant 2.6.1 release
Butcher
Planning related stuff
Beginning helm 3.0 phase the beginning of January
Kubernetes Core has asked us if we would start releasing when kubernetes releases within a week or so of a Kubernetes release
Lachie
Is there anything we do could do as chart maintainers to start testing against kubernetes 1.8
Michelle
Still waiting on initial cost projects for helm summit and helm core maintainer sessions. Will probably happen in January. Looking for sites.
Looked into this PR: https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/pull/2824
Think it’d be best to nest helm readme command under helm inspect
Helm Q&A time during next SIG Apps meeting. Here is the form.
Adnan
There is a discussion going on in charts around functions to be namespaced
https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/issues/1785#issuecomment-323642628
Maciej
Working on e2e tests https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/pull/2846
Created a framework, not about creating scenarios
Using gingko
For each test case, create new namespace
Waiting on review and feedback
Started writing proposal on using existing helm releases for dependencies
Looking for feedback
Demos
Discussion Topics
Look at Maciej’s proposal for re-using existing helm releases as dependencies
Planning
Issue Maharaja: Taylor Thomas
Meeting moderator: Michelle Noorali
Note taker: Matt Fisher / Matt Butcher

Aug 17, 2017

Topics:

Note taking
Recording
Helm Commandeer
CircleCI/testing
Automation of Homebrew, etc
Volunteer for triage, note taking



Taylor:
• Helm comandeer

Majiec:
• e2e testing: basic framework for running and checking
• Want to talk about CircleCI capacity for running these

Fisher:
• Issue triager for last week
  • Caught up on old untriaged issues

Justin:
• Closed a bunch of ancient issues
• Little stuff like the manifest ordering patch

Steve:
• “Helm on Helm” to install Tiller via a chart
• Issue queue managing

Adnan:
• 0.4.0 of Monocular released
• New chart maintainer joined last week

Lachie:
• Azure installing Tiller by default, working on some similar RBAC stuff to Steve

Michelle:
• Community meeting with Karen Chu (MS) on organizing Helm Summit
• Onboarding with Majiec

Adam:
• Release of 2.6

Butcher:
• 2.6 stuff
• Getting ready for 2.7

Ronan:
• Documentation update run soon



Note Taking and Recording:

Where do we store notes? What do SIGs do?

Google Doc for collaboration
Rotating meeting leads and note taking every week is fine?
Minutes will go in https://github.com/kubernetes-helm/community


Next week’s…

Meeting leader: Fisher
Note taker: Michelle
Issue Sherpa: Justin



Recording:
One of the SIG-Apps leads will record via Zoom
Set up YouTube channel (Michelle)
Each week, add link to the repo



Helm Commandeer

Adopt existing resources into a chart/release
Use Case: Bootstrap cluster, install Tiller, then turn around and capture the bootstrapped resources as charts/resources
Butcher/Scott: Capturing existing resources for already-deployed Kubernetes clusters
Steve: Trimming out state information is painful. Might be nice to have a “spec” that an object can be imported into
Majiec: Two arguments for doing this as a plugin instead:
It can make use of Helm as libraries
It forces improvements of the API
Lachie: Concern is with starting to confuse what the “source of truth” is for features.
Taylor: Okay, I do it as a plugin, with the goal of making it a “gold standard” plugin



CircleCI/automation/etc

Majiec: The discussion so far is that we are up to limits of CircleCI. But my own experience is that we have been able to run tests for about :30 in CircleCI. Maybe we still can run a Docker-in-Docker Kubernetes cluster
Adam: I actually reserved you a dedicated e2e resource
Scott: It would be great to be able to kick off building OS packages and have that trigger on releases, as an extension of release management.
Fisher: Maybe you (Scott) and I can chat about that
Lachie: Chart maintainers are also talking about that today

Template
Announcements


Standup


Discussion


Assignments
Issue Sherpa:
Notes:
Moderator:

