Helm Minutes for 2019

December 26, 2019
Cancelled for the holidays
December 19, 2019
Announcements
Helm 3.0.2 has been released: https://github.com/helm/helm/releases/tag/v3.0.2
Helm dev calls resume 2nd week of January, the 9th
ChartMuseum v0.11.0 released, works w/ Helm 3
Standup
Matt Butcher
Cut the 3.0.2 bug fix release
3.1.0 release set for end of January (tentatively)
Matt Fisher
Consultation on the issue queue
Josh Dolitsky
New release of chartmuseum based on Helm 2.16.1 which broke backwards compatibility, so working with community members on that
helm-push now has Helm 3 support
Taylor Thomas
Issue triaging
Proposal for post-render hooks: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7260
Support for Kustomize
PR: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7259
Discussion
Taylor’s post-render proposal
Specify a binary with --post-renderer=<bin> on install
The binary must take stdin and return kubernetes yaml on stdout
If you opt-into a post-render, you’re stuck with it for the release’s lifetime
Will remove checks on if a release used post-renderer for now, will add in later as feature if needed
Need review from other maintainers
What’s for dinner for _______?
?
Assignments: [Determined Jan 9 - Fisher Moderator, Josh D notes]

December 12, 2019
Announcements
Helm 3.0.1 has been released
Standup
Marc: Improvements to completion -- in Cobra itself. It will be a surprise!
Josh: Introducing Peter, who will be working with Josh. Chart Museum 0.10 is incompatible with Helm 3, so working on upgrading it.
Fisher: ONE BAZILLION ISSUES TRIAGED. Pass through old support questions that were stale
Taylor: Backlog on issues and PRs. Next week: Proposal for post-render hooks with Replicated. Example with Kustomize coming soon.
Farina: 3.0.1 released, then at Kubernetes Forum in Seoul doing a Helm presentation.
Butcher: Discovery client bug, PR triaging
Martin: Working through the PR queue, and triaging issues
Community:
Anukul: Issue #3276 (external files to chart deployments). Can we discuss here?  https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/3276
Sandip: Second time on the call, and interested in contributing as well.
Scott (chat): PS sorry I was late for standup everyone, one thing I think I should at least mention is that Reinhard & I have been working on Chart Repo automation actions:
Demo: https://github.com/helm/charts-repo-actions-demo (intended to not only demo and test the actions, but help chart maintainers how to easily become chart repo maintainers in a few easy steps)
@helm/kind-action
@helm/chart-testing-action
@helm/chart-releaser-action
Discussion
#3276: Proposed possible implementation. Pass in files from a commandline flag, then a template can access those particular files if they were passed in.
Fisher: Can we have the user opt-in to including files at install time so that the user is totally aware of what files are added
Anukul: Yeah, we can talk about this offline
“Lookup” function: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6752 [Taylor]
Ability to look up data from inside the cluster during template rendering
Need to vet security of this
Josh: How does this handle the (offline) ‘helm template’ case?
Taylor: We should follow up on that in the issue
“helm env and XDG_* vars” https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6892 [Marc]
Marc: Was hoping Adam would be here. Will continue on the issue queue.
Next Cobra release will print the help text on stderr.  Any foreseen issue? [Marc]
Change that causes all help text to go to stderr
Marc: Could bring it up in Cobra as a breaking change?
Fisher (chat): Should look into whether this is configurable in Cobra itself
Assignments
Notes:
Moderator:

December 5, 2019
Announcements
New Helm Client Maintainer
Chartmuseum 0.10 is out
Standup
Martin
Getting back into things after a long return from KubeCon
Triaging and reviewing the things
Josh
Released chartmuseum
Scrubbing issue queue for registry things
Farina
Triaging PRs for a 3.0.1 release
Marc
Working on autocompletion for plugins
Butcher
Giving team update. Many people are using their use it or lose it vacation time. Slow down in velocity
Finished last conference of the year
Not much done since KubeCon/CloudNativeCon
Karuppiah
Working on pull plugin for chartmuseum
Discussion
Chartutil unmarshiling to json.Number issue - https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6888 [mattfarina]
Releasing 3.0.1 [mattfarina]
Matt Farina will get a release out
S390x releases? [mattfarina]
Martin is going to chase this down
We are tentative to own and support releases we cannot test or debug
https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6988
https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7096
Discovery client errors [technosophos]
Go modules/Oras lib update [jdolitsky]
People having issues using Helm 3 as a lib due to docker/distribution replace
Maybe this will fix: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6862
Assignments
Notes: Butcher
Moderator: Martin

November 14, 2019
Announcements
No meeting for the next 2 weeks
Helm 3.0.0 has been released
https://helm.sh/blog/helm-3-released/
Helm 2.16.1 has been released
https://github.com/helm/helm/releases/tag/v2.16.1
KubeCon sessions for next week
Scott is doing a maintainer’s booth
Farina and Josh: Helm intro session
Taylor and Martin: Helm deep dive
CERN is giving a Helm talk
Michelle will be talking to analysts during the event
Michelle will be hosting a few panels: TOC and end user
Signup sheet: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1d-6xJEx0C78csIYSPKJzRPeWaHG_8W1Hjl72OJggwdc/edit#heading=h.y5ll0uc2osyi
Standup
Josh
Started using helm 3 and helmfile this week
Taylor
Polishing up kubecon talks, continuing to do so next week
Martin
Been dealing with a bunch of miscellaneous issues at work. Broken laptop, server issues, etc.
Updated migration plugin for Helm ga
Prepping for KubeCon
Matt Fisher
Managing the helm 3 release
Adam Reese
Taking a look at managed hook proposal
Matt Butcher
Working through a whole bunch of the documentation for Helm 3
Attending kubecon next week
Matt Farina
Got the blog post and governance changes out for the community management role
Triaging hub.helm.sh requests
Scott
Working on a stable and incubator charts repo deprecation policy, aligning with the helm 2 deprecation policy
Michelle
Prepping for Kubecon
Discussion
Interest in a “helm import” tool for existing resources? (to help migrate from helm template | kubectl apply -f type workflows) (jacob)
Jacob to follow up with taylor on the `helm commandeer` plugin
Question about hooks for community charts v2 compatibility
Scott to follow up with adam
Ok time to update go modules? / Does anybody know how to update Go modules?
Farina: yes
Assignments (3 weeks from now)
Notes: Farina
Moderator: Fisher

November 7, 2019
Announcements
3.0.0-rc.3 has been released
_should_ be the last one
2.16.0 has been released
Due to breaking changes, it needed to be a major version
Standup
Fisher
working with Martin & Rimas - mini-consulting - found issues with some releases not being created/propagated over
Adam
PR reviews, and anything that comes up before the release
Butcher
gave talks at Open Source Summit on Helm & community with Karen
Helping Farina get ready for kubecon
Running through the docs with a new user’s eyes
Farina
Slides! Preparing for the conference
Helm hub - reviews for v3
Reviews and other helping in prep for v3 release
Bridget
Out earlier this week at VelocityConf Berlin
ING is doing interesting stuff with Helm
Helping Lachie get ready for his QCon SF Helm talk
Martin
Focused on Helm 3 & bugs
Working on deep dive with Taylor for KubeCon
Commenting on Fisher’s blog post for Helm 3
Michelle
She’s back!
Volunteering with a non-profit _using_ Helm - good perspective
Available to help with PRs
Jacob
Planning to look over current docs on Helm test/hooks
Planning to open a PR to fix referencing images by digest in the default starter chart
Scott Rigby
Worked on chart testing repo this week with Reinhard
Aligned branches with helm/helm’s current branching scheme
We are in the process of upgrading chart testing to Helm v3
Taylor
Working with Martin on talk for KubeCon San Diego
Working on an advanced k8s talk for cloud native rejects
bugs/PRs!
Discussion
2.16.1 release [Taylor] - 2.16.1 milestone
Schema issue in the issue queue - fix merged in, undergoing testing - breaking some of the major charts like Prometheus.
Let’s cut release today [Taylor and Fisher will pair on issues and cut release]
Is a `helm status` bug a regression? Or did something else break in the k8s client libraries?
KubeCon/CloudNativeCon booth [Farina]
Sign up! We need people to pick time(s) to be there.
Helm 3 Presser update [Farina]
The CNCF is waiting on what we plan to announce
Butcher: Microsoft will have an Open at Microsoft blog post about it. [Bridget is writing it]
Question about Helm v3 compatibility with community helm/charts that I may have missed: are we still planning something like this:
    > A “legacy” plugin will be released by the Helm project to support v1 charts with the crd-install hook
Farina: we will need to help the community repo and document the dual pattern. Let’s automate/simplify so we don’t make it too hard on the community. Scott is working on this.
Helm template not rendering notes in 3: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6901
Martin: this has been answered
Assignments
Notes: Fisher
Moderator: Scott

October 31, 2019
Announcements
3.0.0-rc.1 has been released! rc.2 to follow
2.15.2 released. See https://helm.sh/blog/2019-10-30-helm-symlink-security-notice/
2.16.0-rc.2 has been released
Standup
Taylor
Working on PRs, working on issues, etc. Keeping an eye on the queue
Josh (in costume)
Been spending time on the OCI mailing list to make sure our strategy is good for charts in OCI repos
Martin
Doing bits of this and that (spending time in issues and PR reviews)
Bridget
In Belgium with lots of delicious chocolate
Doing a helm talk at a k8s meetup
Matt Farina
Cutting releases and doing odds and ends to help get releases and prereleases out
Adam
Tying up loose ends on v3 including dependency updates
Scott
Been out sick. PR reviews and online help since back
Matt Fisher
Working on ins and outs of getting releases out and fixing things up
Working with 2-to-3 migration process
Triaging bugs
Discussion
Do we think we have a good handle on the queue to warrant pushing out a 3.0.0-rc.2 by EOD tomorrow, or should we push out to Monday? [fisher]
Adam suggest we use a time box when cutting RCs.
Not doing this for the 3.0.0
Assignments
Notes
Bridget
Moderator
Taylor

October 24, 2019
Announcements:
Helm 3 beta.5 released 🎺
Helm 2.15.0 released 🎺
Helm 2.15.1 released 🎺
GitHub branches changes: 🎺
2.x: `master` → `dev-v2`
3.x: `dev-v3` → `master`
Helm 2.x now in maintenance mode - bug fixes only accepted
Helm Security Audit current status [fisher]
We should see the full report within the next week
Standup:
Matt Farina
Working on PR reviews, triage
Upgraded the kubernetes cluster for Helm Hub
Fixed a few issues related to CronJobs in the cluster
Taylor
Reviewing PRs and shepherding things through to cut Helm releases
Working on documentation for Helm 3
Matt Fisher
Working on triaging issues for the Helm release milestones (2.15, beta.5)
Matt Butcher
Away at OSS Lyon, France this week
Martin
Bug triage
PR reviews
Looking to follow up with the other core maintainers to help out with the RC
Jacob
Working with a coworker on a particular PR in regards to `helm template` in Helm 3
Discussion:
Helm 3 GA: [martin]
Notification to CNCF
RC1 release date
GA release date
Farina: when we go out with 3.0, this is a BIG thing so we want to maximize press coverage. We need to notify the CNCF to give them lead time for blog posts, press time, etc.
We have to coordinate with partners
Fisher: On the site design, Ronan is free right now but may be pulled in other directions as KubeCon NA comes closer
?????
Change related to OCI mediatypes: [josh]
https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6779
Assignments:
Notes: Farina
Moderator: Fisher


October 17, 2019
Announcements
Standup
Taylor
PR Reviews
Working on some PRs like around a “funky” situation with time: feat(*): Adds custom time package for better marshalling. Working on a lint PR
Martin
Worked on a few PRs and PR reviews
Did some triaging
Matt Farina
Worked with folks on the Helm security audit which is ongoing
Triagied issues with the Helm Hub
Matt Fisher
Worked on v3 including the 3 way merge
Going to continue on with v3 beta 5 work
Discussion:
Will Helm v2 CRDs work in Helm v3? [martin]
No. The CRD install is different in each. This needs to be documented
We were/are planning to have a legacy plugin that will bring about compatibility but work has not happened on that, yet
How should `repo update` resolve v3 repository file: [martin]
https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6644
Release updates
Release.Time and Release.Revision discussion
Jacob asked to have it back because he uses it with backups and to pull the right backup
Assignments
Notes: Matt Fisher
Moderator: Martin

October 10, 2019
Announcements
If you are a project maintainer, you now have triage access everywhere in the Helm org
Helm 3 security audit starts today
This is needed for graduation
V3 beta.4 contains an important security fix
Standup
Taylor
Working on porting features over from Helm 2 to Helm 3
This next week spending more on ports and outstanding work for beta.5
Adam
Merged PRs on open API validations
Making sure there aren’t any other loose ends for v3
Matt Fisher
Working on paring down the PR queue, closing old PRs and triaging ones needed in 2.15. One more outstanding PR for 2.15
Working on finishing up 2.15 and beta.5 this next week
Matt Farina
Worked on getting the security audit work rolling
Working through go modules issues and cleanup
Working on Helm Hub stuff as well
There are some scaling and storage issues
Jacob
Saving time for discussion
Martin
Working on v3 ports
PR reviews!
Updating the migration plugin against beta.4, including updating go modules
Discussion
What versions of Kubernetes is Helm supporting? [mattfarina]
Note, Google Cloud, Azure, and AWS ship n-2 as their latest stable
Example: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6590
If we stick with n-1 we’d be excluding all public cloud providers
All maintainers present in the call are ok with n-2. Farina is going to send out an email to Helm Maintainers for a vote
How should Helm v3 cache work? [martin]
In v3, repository file (repositories.yaml) seems to be empty for cache property for repo entries
The repositories.yaml file is missing the cache property.
This is different per system due to the XDG spec, which allows you to change which directory to look in. Caching should still work
Adam is going to look it up to validate
When migrate from v2 to v3, repository cache is not updated in repo file following `helm repo update` https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6488#issuecomment-539468075
Helm test and hooks roadmap for v3 release [jacob]
See presentation for full proposal
There is an open PR to remove the cleanup command
Hooks will be recreated (idempotent) by default and other resources will be updated as needed
Helm 2.x and 3.x [martin]
When going to release Beta 5?
Beta.5 is following the same roadmap as beta.4 (which was released due to a needed security patch)
We are waiting for beta.5 until 2.15 is released
Do we lock down merges until we have new branches available?
Branch names post 2.15 release? For example, master → 2.x, dev-v3 → master & dev-v3 → 3.0 (3.0 GA)
Dates:
2.15 RC today or tomorrow
2.15 by next wednesday
Switch branches right after 2.15 (shoot for thursday)
Beta.5 will be released before branch cut over (shoot for thursday)
We’ll cut the v3 RC as soon as we are ready after that so we have a longer RC time for people to try it in prod
Assignments
Notes: Matt Fisher
Moderator: Adam
October 3, 2019
Announcements
A vote went through in the org maintainers list: anyone who is a project maintainer in the Helm organization will now be granted the Triage role across all Helm projects. This is to help with triaging efforts across projects
Standup
Adam Reese
Working on a few Helm 3 PRs around flag parsing and environment variable processing
Matt Fisher
Pairing with Bridget on Helm 2 PR queue - figuring out what is in there, what could go into 2.15, resolving old issues.
Not too much to report on Helm 3 this week
Martin Hickey
PR review/triaging
Starting to pour over som older PRs and see where they are in terms of merging status. One of them is the release checklist
Helping out with the Helm 2 -> Helm 3 PR port process
Taylor Thomas
Working on a major refactor in Helm 3 that standardizes how Helm displays information. We had 2 printers; now we have 1
Reviewing PRs as they come in
Matt Butcher
Working on migrating some internal charts from Helm 2 -> Helm 3 for testing purposes
Working on updating the Helm 3 documentation around XDG
Bridget Kromhout
Pairing with Fisher on a bunch of Helm 2 PRs
~20% of the old PRs were cleared up in the past few days
Added a few PRs to the discussion list for further questions
Matt Farina
Working on migrating helm/helm over to Go Modules, which has been fun
Should have a workable PR with an up-to-date modules in the next few days
Discussion
Issue Triage/Discussion
helm template refactor and remove dependency on install. Ideas on how to go about it.
Action item: open up a WIP PR so we can give some actionable feedback
Moving initActionConfig to pkg: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6341 from aaronmell (Note: We set up the expectation this would get in, and the submitter is asking.)
Adam: I can give an update on this one
Fix chartutil.Save returning empty path when passing a non-existent directory (Resolves #6344): https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6360 from wxdao (Note: We told the submitter this bugfix would get considered; actively working on it today.)
Overall, I think we need to step in and respond, telling them that we need to
feat(cmd/helm): use alternative ports on `helm init`: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5847 from mnkyl (Note: This is Tiller-related but seems ready for review. So we either merge or reject now, it seems.)
Fisher will look at this.
fix repo url being decoded: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6060 from karuppiah7890 (Note: Looks like the submitter is hoping for a review and actively working on it.)
Matt Farina: I’ve already commented and they’re asking for me. I’ll look at it.
add AppVersion column to the history command: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5069 from adshmh (Note: Is there a reason this is not merged, other than the docs conflict that crept in over time? Looks like it needs a second maintainer to look at it?)
Matt Farina: I’ll take a look at this one
Taylor: I can port to v3 when done
Release Metadata https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6464 [Taylor]
Action item: Fisher will follow up in the issue with the discussion that occurred in the meeting (link to youtube)
Possible 2.15 Release Date [Fisher/Taylor/Bridget]
Suggestion:
mid-october cut 2.15 branch (Oct 16?),
switch the dev-v3 over to master
cut beta 4 first
consider a Helm 3 release candidate for Halloween (or right before KubeCon mid-Nov)
Can we also discuss 3.x release date [Martin]
We need to cut beta 4 first
Create a 3.1 milestone
Assignments
Notes: Taylor
Moderator: Martin

September 26, 2019
Announcements
Beta 4 date? - coming out fairly soon (discuss at standup)
Standup
Taylor Thomas:
porting features from v2 to v3 - small refactors - adding back in missing validations
Tying up 2.15 milestone & releasing that - which should be the last feature release of Helm2
Josh Dolitsky
Diving down OCI harbo(u?)r rabbit hole
Bridget Kromhout
Working on communications around Helm 3 ticket items
Matt Farina
Helm hub install/search issues (redirect needed; in progress)
Hoping to start go modules on Helm
Matt Fisher
Triaging, porting features
Working towards next beta milestone
Adam Reese
OpenAPI validation - adding back, finding small bugs
Matt Butcher
InfoQ will publish an article about Helm Summit tomorrow (after interviewing Butcher)
Martin Hickey
Working on migration feature and docs (yay)
Reviews for ports
Looking at k8s 1.16 breaking changes
Jacob
Has a PR open for moving test run subcommands: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6363
Triage -[moving to discussion this time]
Discussion
v2.15 [Taylor]
Current plan is this will be the last feature release (we could then close all v2 _feature_ PRs - bugs will still get worked, just not “exciting new thing”.
Helm channels: Slack, mailing list, etc - letting people know
We will probably have to stay on current client go libraries until k8s 1.17 comes out.
v3 label, project board, etc (Bridget)
What does “ bacongobbler added the v3 label 3 days ago” imply? The Helm 3 project board has a small subset of what’s tagged v3. The v3 label on PRs does not seem to imply it will be merged _before_ v3.
Farina: “V3” as a label doesn’t imply any commitment
Fisher: Github has a feature that allows one to add description for labels - let’s add more info to the v3 label. And let’s update the contributing docs.
Farina + Adam: let’s flag everything v2 or v3
 timeboxed segment where we look at outstanding issues/PRs
https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6504 - technically a breaking change - but we said beta could have those! So it should be okay?
Farina will add some labels for v2/v3

Marckhouzam: auto-completion for the v2/v3 migration https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6474
What is the priority? Adam appreciates and will review.
But should v2 patches get added so autocomplete works properly on both sides?
Josh D: if autocomplete is not working it’s a bug
Matt Farina: Happy to review these.
Marc & Martin discussing autocomplete speed (10ms vs 60ms)
Assignments
Notes: Fisher
Moderator: Farina


September 19, 2019
Announcements
Helm summit
Helm 2to3 plugin moved to Helm Org: https://github.com/helm/helm-2to3
Standup
Adnan
Not much to report
Matt Butcher
Was at Helm Summit last week
Starting light planning for next Helm summit
Matt Farina
Semver v3 out and sprig v3 in works. Both using go modules
Working on monocular redirects to work with helm install for helm hub and removing chartsvc from search url
Taylor
Looking into bugs and features for Helm v3
Was at the summit last week
Jacob
Using helm v3 for past 3 weeks!
Working on test subcommand
Martin
Helm summit last week
Cleanup capability in 2to3 plugin
Going to get back to migration docs
Triaging in the queue
Discussion
What about adding kubectl as dependency for zsh completions. See https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6408 [mattfarina]
Will check with Adam who has worked on this
Validate that the absence of kubectl does not cause any issues so this is only additive
Edge case issue https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6435 [martin]:
If Helm 2 and Helm 3 manage the same cluster concurrently
And Helm 2 release data is stored as secrets in the cluster
And Helm 2 has release(s) stored in namespace of the release
Helm 3 stores release as secret in the namespace of release
Helm 3 will not list any such v2 releases as different labels used
With Helm 3 you can try to install with name already used in v2 and it errors out
Issues also occurs for migrating data meaning that release cannot be migrated
Should Helm 3 to use a different naming convention for release versions?
Are we still integrating new functionality into v2 like https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5704? [martin]
Looking to 2.15 as last feature release for v2
Taylor to email maintainers on this and moving dev-v3 to master and documenting the stance on v2 features and v3 dev [Bridget can help write this up]
Deprecating the --recreate-pods flag https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/1702 [Taylor]
Taylor would document the replacement
No push back
Triage role and the Helm org… https://help.github.com/en/articles/repository-permission-levels-for-an-organization#repository-access-for-each-permission-level [mattfarina]
Assignments
Notes: Bridget
Moderator: Taylor

September 12, 2019
No meeting due to the Helm summit in Amsterdam

September 5, 2019
Announcements
Make sure to register for Helm Summit! -  https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/helm-summit-2019/
Butcher: there is a 20% discount code “HELM19G20”
Next week in Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Community and core maintainers
Standup
Taylor:
Preparing for Helm summit
PR reviews
Paired with Butcher on some CRD stuff
Matt Fisher:
Back from honeymoon! Congrats!
Preparing for Helm summit
PR reviews
Adam:
PR reviews
Doing fixes
Martin:
Migration work
PR reviews
Starting to pull up some v2 work around scaffold charts
Matt Farina:
Bug triage
PR reviews
Helm hub work
Jacob:
Helm test proposal
Looking to refactor Helm test
Josh:
Preparing for Helm summit
Matt Butcher:
Working on CRDs with Taylor
Preparing for Helm summit
Discussion
Will we have a meeting during the summit?
Next week dev meeting is cancelled due to Helm summit
Beta 3 release [Taylor]:
Cut a release before going to summit to pickup work
Beta 4 and RC release timelines [Taylor]:
Pull up any v2 work and get it stable for Beta 4 before rc1
Work to make it stable for GA
Should “helm-2to3” plugin be added to Helm org [Martin]: https://github.com/hickeyma/helm-2to3/issues/14:
Yes, pull it
Martin to send mail to Helm Org Maintainers to vote to get it added
If/When added to Helm org, Helm core maintainer become owners
Test subcommand beta status? [Jacob]
Remove `run` from `helm test run` (Jacob before beta.4)
Remove the cleanup flag (Jacob before beta.4)
Make it useable by Helm 3
Any breaking changes are feature gated
https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5654
`helm template` Breaking change?
Need `validate` flag now to use
Matt Butcher/Jacob to look at it
Jacob to file a new issue
One-minute summary of the CNCF review [butcher]:
Matt Butcher and Farina delivered to CNCF
Very successful meeting and CNCF very happy with progress
Security audit in October
Looking to  move from incubator project to Fully fledged project by EOY
Assignments [for September 19th]
Notes: Matt Farina
Moderator: Josh

August 29, 2019
- Moderator: Adam
- Notes: Vibhav

Announcements
    - Helm v3.0.0-beta.{1,2} released: Thanks Taylor & Adam.
- Standup
    - Butcher
        - Open Source Summit talk with Karen Chu about lessons from open source (focused on the Helm project)
    - Josh:
        - Working on ORAS
    - Martin
        - PR reviews
        - Bug triaging
- Getting ready for helm summit
    - Matt Farina
        - Getting ready for helm summit,
- if you hit 501 jobs in the cluster in helm hub cron jobs stop working. Fix: reduce the number of jobs
    - Bridget
        - Talks in Open source summit
        - Getting ready for helm summit
- Discussion
- [Josh] https://github.com/helm/acceptance-testing
- Define goals
- [Martin] Discuss goals for Helm 2 to Helm 3 Migration:
    - Feature: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5892
    - Doc: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5582
    - Helm v2 releases in-place to Helm v3:
        - Proposal: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6154
- Plugin: https://github.com/hickeyma/helm-2to3

- Assignments:
- [Bridget] - figure out what’s more common - “dry run” or “template” - in the wider ecosystem (https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6290)

- Notes:
- Moderator:


August 22, 2019
moderator: matt farina
notes: scott
Announcements
Make sure to register for Helm Summit! -  https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/helm-summit-2019/
There is a 20% discount code “HELM19G20”
Standup
Josh
Registry should be good for beta
Adam
Working on removing helm init. Changing how config is passed around
Trying to get all unit tests to pass
Scott
Chart PRs & slack help
Helped with Azure image updating for Helm Hub
Issue on Helmfile and Helm org: https://github.com/roboll/helmfile/issues/758
Matt Farina
updated helm hub
cert-manager (older version made excessive api calls, will be deprecated soon)
upgraded helm version to v2.14.3, and docker image for that
Helm issue triaging
Jacob
helm test for v3
can create configmaps and secrets at the same time
documenting
follow-up work to document cleanup policy. Working on proposal for that


Discussion
Captain CRD+Controller for Helm 3 [Some folks from Alauda]
https://github.com/alauda/captain


https://github.com/helm/acceptance-testing
Move to next week
Wants to define project goals
Assignments
Notes: Vibhav
Moderator: Adam
August 15, 2019
Announcements
Make sure to register for Helm Summit! -  https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/helm-summit-2019/
Butcher: there is a 20% discount code “HELM19G20”
Josh now a Helm Core maintainer - congrats!
Standup
Butcher: Fisher did a major issue-queue pruning
Triage, clearnining, getting ready for Helm 3 beta 1 milestone
Farina and Butcher worked on security audit
uncovered problem with CRDs


Taylor: Bugs and beta 1 release notes
Go 1.12.8 was breaking… everything (so, rebase your open PRs against v3 - and check all your go projects)
Finishing open PRs and cutting beta very soon
Farina: getting search stuff completed - `helm search` in v3 shows what you can search (registries, hub, monocular instances if you pass the URL)
Bridget: getting ready for Open Source Summit talk about Helm 3
Adam: code reviews, pairing, helm init feature (lazy-creating config files and system directories as needed)
Vibhav Bobde: question re: storage classes - is it a good idea to wait on provisioners in storage classes? (sent a PR recently)
Nick Huanca - asking about adding a flag to show all values or supplied values in template debug
Wrote “reckoner” - would like compatibility
Adam: let’s make sure we have machine-parsable output
Discussion
CRDs in Helm 3 [Taylor and Adam]
Taylor: “Everybody’s favorite topic in k8s-land - CRDs!”
As we factor out how manifests are rendered, there isn’t a clear path/common use/install/manage pattern for CRDs
Farina: CRDs allow you to extend the k8s API, so they’re good for cluster extensions, but they need more access than you usually want to give to app developers. Lack of definition in the space about how this should work - but we’re using CRDs far beyond their original intents, and in many enterprise environments, installing an operator is a cross-team administrative task. Also, across namespaces may not work as expected (is the CRD available?)
Farina: Helm v3 likely can’t “solve” things that are still beta in k8s itself.
Adam: Helm can’t validate API objects in the cluster, due to order-of-operations - before we can parse a CRD object we have to render the manifests, and then you can create API resources that weren’t available when you did the rendering - we can’t render before we install. Possible solution: break out CRDs into a defined space in the chart? And then CRD management happens first, so the rest of the rendering then works correctly?
Butcher: “There’s also that peculiar pattern where the controller installs its CRD. Then we can’t load CRD instances until the controller is running”
Taylor: Making assumptions in Helm 2 that turned out to be invalid means we’re looking to the community to ensure we go the direction they want (instead of trying to impose a standard).
Adam: projects wanting clean install steps are interested in answers on CRDs, but application operations is where the problems show up.
Farina: a human way to make the experience of interacting with this better - better error messages, better docs
Bridget: good point - if people have to choose between “hello world is easy” and “production is safe” the answer is clear, but it would be nice to have both.
Farina: let’s help people understand how to use Helm in production
Vibhav: we don’t want people to use CRDs by mistake or without understanding them.
Assignments
Notes: ?? [a number of people are at Open Source Summit]
Moderator: Matt Farina


August 8, 2019
Announcements
Make sure to register for Helm Summit! -  https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/helm-summit-2019/
Standup
Butcher
Working with Farina on the security audit for the Helm 3 codebase
Security audit is slated for the beginning of October
Helm administrivia
Fisher
Looking at what is needed for the beta.1 milestone
Taylor
Working on the same things as Fisher
Fixing bugs in Helm 3/Helm 2
Working on items to get the beta out the door
Adam
Focused on code reviews this week
Next week working on removing “helm init”
Josh
Working with Farina and Fisher on OCI work and how it is going to land in beta
Farina
Updating our security list
PR reviews!
Discussion
Bringing v2 features merged after v3 branch to v3. https://github.com/helm/helm/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=label%3A%22Needs+v3+fix%22
Doc changes
Most code ones are taken care of
Do we remove or add the label when complete?
Adam: We should have a second label to indicate it is done
Taylor will be adding “v3 port complete” label and going through the list of tagged changes
Helm security audit update [Matt Farina / Matt Butcher]
Which code areas should we be checking?
Tlsutil
Chart provenance
New registry code
Templating (no break-outs)
Security issues will be reported in real time to the security mailing list
For clarity: This audit is part of the requirements for CNCF graduation
Intro to Helm talk at KubeCon SD [Taylor]
Farina is going to join Josh for giving the Intro talk
Taylor will start a thread with Nanci at the CNCF to get the talk transferred to them
Registry updates
Experimental flag for inclusion
We are all ok with including the OCI work with a feature flag, which means we need to add in feature flag functionality to Helm
Status of remaining tasks
Export errors bug: DONE
Issue: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5757
Layers finalization: almost done
Issue: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6141
oci-layout: almost done
Issue: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6068
Helm Hub search [mattfarina]
The goal would be to have the default search tie into the helm hub search
Fisher: This would be a good UX for users
Assignments
Notes: Bridget
Moderator: Adam
August 1, 2019
Announcements
Helm 2.14.3 is out [Matt Fisher]
Standup
Matt Fisher
Working with Taylor on some helm v3 issues. The design for 3-way merge patch (PR available). Still needs docs.


Adnan
Not much to report
Discussion on stable and helm v3 https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-helm/topic/psa_helm_v3_and_the_stable/32656951?p=,,,20,0,0,0::recentpostdate%2Fsticky,,,20,2,0,32656951
Josh
Working on chartmuseum
Getting OCI related tasks for beta
Martin
Working on charts v2 api. First PR is up
Enabled checking for the test styling
Working on migrations
Scott
A github app for chart releases
Taylor
Working on 2.14.3 (a CRD change). The helm v3 version of the change still needs to land
Kubeclient change
Working on 3 way merge changes
Matt Farina
Removing the stable repository from Helm 3 has been merged
Background context:
the stable repository has been hosted by Google’s account, making it difficult to migrate
The chart repository has become unsustainable for the charts maintainers (ERR_FIREHOSE)
Working on a process for making the gpg keys public in a KEYS file
Jacob LeGrone
Working on proposed changes to testing for helm v3
Discussion
Helm v2 support window once v3 is out [mattfarina]
Bridget noted the shopping and tax season issues
Suggestion is 6 months of bug fixes, following 6 months of security releases
After one year, following v3, no longer supported. Download location in Google may (will?) go away. We should have a backup for people but it may require changes in their use
TODO(mattfarina): Create a support proposal and put out for review
TODO(mattfarina): Email helm mailing list on this
Final pre-3.0-beta OCI tasks!
OCI layout: helm/helm#6068
Layers/meta decision: helm/helm#6141
This impacts signing charts which still needs to be worked out for OCI storage
ArgoCD demo/consultation [Alex Collins]
Helm v3 3 way merge [Taylor]
Assignments
Notes: Taylor Thomas
Moderator: Matt Farina

July 25, 2019
Announcements
Helm 3.0.0-alpha.2 was released earlier this week (Matt Fisher)
Standup
Scott
charts PRs
Martin
Looking at release information between Helm 2 and Helm 3
Putting together a proposal for migration
Taylor
Refactoring the internal kube client libraries in Helm 3
Adding back --cleanup-on-fail
Also following up on the issue where resources sometimes don’t update. More information has been shared by the community
Matt Farina
Helm Hub work for the last week
Michelle
Working through the helm test proposal Jacob worked on last week
Josh
Opened a new acceptance test suite repository: https://github.com/helm/acceptance-testing
Working with Fisher on a list of work items to complete for the beta
Matt Fisher
Released alpha.2
Working on doing some release planning for beta.1
Discussion
Ian https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6066
Action item: Matt Fisher will take a closer look at this one this week (or early next week)
A KEYS file for signed releases… https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6015 [farina]
Yes, this sounds like a good thing to do
In the future we may move to notary, but we still need to implement this for Helm 2
Work remaining for Helm 3 and how best to share the load? [martin]
Linking “Helm Hub China”, request to review [harry]: https://github.com/helm/charts/pull/15004, https://github.com/helm/monocular/pull/640 (Q: where will be the best place so ppl in China could see the mirror hub?)
A: maybe both, we could follow up on the PR to see how to link
We are also translating (localized) Helm v3 Doc in Chinese
The helm official docs want to move to have translations
https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5994 (helm controller and CRD) [Hang Yan]
Scott to follow up with Hang to set up a meeting, or as a demo for next week’s dev call
Assignments
Notes:
Moderator: Matt Fisher
July 18, 2019
Announcements
Helm Summit Update (fisher)
Schedule is available https://helmsummit2019.sched.com/
Speakers have been notified
Next steps: review diversity scholarships, sponsorships
2.14.2 released
Standup
Matt Fisher:
Helm Summit planning
Release planning for 3.0-beta
Scott:
Reviewing chart tooling, also PR reviews/merges for helm/charts
Matt Butcher:
Meetings for CNCF Graduation
Bridget joined team to work on docs
Helmfile looking to join the Helm Org
Working on getting our KubeCon SD sessions setup
Matt Farina:
PR reviews
Adam:
This week: reviewing a few PRs
Talking to taylor about some apply design stuff
Pulling out some features from his XDG PR (like the --namespace fix)
Michelle:
Helm Test:  reviewing proposal from Jacob
Taylor:
Atomic flag feature
Working with Adam and it was amazing
Martin:
v2 to v3 migration proposal
Cut 2.14.2 release
General PR, issue work
Discussion
Making Helm easier to use as a Go library and the work required (Taylor)
Helm testing proposal https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6020 (Jacob)
Merging PRs procedure: PR has one LGTM (small, medium), two LGTMs (large+) OR 2 LGTMs? (Martin)
Assignments
Notes: Matt Fisher
Moderator: Scott

July 11, 2019
Announcements
2.14.2 is coming (today? lol)
Helm Summit CFP notifications will go out Monday
Helm Summit schedule final touches happening, coming out soon
We will be bumping the chart API version to v2, because new charts made for helm v3 won't work with the v1 charts API
Standup
Taylor:
almost done moving atomic flag to help 3
will work on 3 way diff merge
helped a bit on 2.14.2
Scott:
Nothing to report for this week
Martin:
issue triage/pr review/ workspace answers
migration stuff on backburner, will try to get back to it
need some issue triage help
Matt farina:
not much this week except merging stuff into helm hub and some triage help
Josh (via Taylor):
working on kind acceptance test suite
Adam:
working on helm init (can remove command)
catching up on code reviews
Bridget:
Offer to help w kubecon NA CFPs, due Friday
Matt Fisher (via Martin):
working on helm summit schedule planning
Via slack "RE: bumping apiVersion to v2, yes, I agree that's something we should do for Helm 3, especially if the default output of `helm create` won't work for Helm 2."
Discussion
Helm v3 charts, is it time to increment the chart apiVersion to v2?
https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5907
Example changes:
requirements.lock now Chart.lock
Requirements now in Chart.yaml
Michelle has proposed a chart test breaking change
Release object in templates has changed (Time dropped but sprig function coming to templates to return exact same feature in use)
Someone is working on a Helm v3 controller - https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5994
https://github.com/fluxcd, too
Are the changes to the test architecture documented somewhere (proposal? v3*.md?).
Any updates on planning for Lua engine stuff? (curious about chart template post-render options. No rush 😅)
Answer: other Helm v3 features are prioritized to get out for initial helm release, breaking changes etc, and most importantly Tillerless. Lua can be an upcoming MINOR version, and work can start at some point after the initial v3 release.
Assignments
Notes: Adam
Moderator: Martin

June 27, 2019
Announcements
None for today
Standup
Nikhil:
Not much last week
Follow up on PR reviews / Issues this week
Josh:
Helm.sh follow up
Not too much else
Taylor
Ready to jump to Helm 3 things
Plan to cut 2.14.2 on Monday with Martin’s help
If there are some bug fixes that need to make it to this release please let Taylor / Martin know!
Scott
Coalesce values fix added to 2.14.2
Martin
Digging in to a lot of PR reviews and issue triage
Fixed an issue with templating on the v3 branch. This was causing unit tests to fail
Also made some progress on the migration work
Jacob
Michelle has an updated helm testing proposal. Would be good to get feedback from a wider audience around this.
Michelle
Working on helm test -- this week was helm test cleanup
Going to get on a zoom with Jacob to go into detail on helm test. Will drop a link in the #helm-dev channel
Would love some more feedback on the helm test PR
Discussion
Need a label or a way to assign community members to issues (michelle)
Was talking to someone in the community about an issue, and she wanted to take over the issue, but there was no way to assign it to them.
Need to look into what administrative controls GitHub has for this?
Will look into what k8s does here and should have an update soon
Community member asking when alpha.2 is scheduled for (martin)
(Find alpha.2 issue to add here)
We’re working on this as hard as possible. We’ve deferred features to post 3.0 (e.g. LUA) so that we can get the critical pieces out. E.g. atomic flag, 3-way diff, etc. Might be a couple of months. We are trying to get a release out the door for this.
Helm Testing Proposal:
[Martin] Brought up backwards compatibility; what happens in cases of test success/failure (ideally failure keeps resources around, success cleans up -- or this can be based on a flag).
[Michelle] Conditionals become hairy and hard to understand -- so maybe having a seperate cleanup command is good here? Maybe this needs more discussion -- let’s open an issue up on this. How much of this is based on the cleanup flag? What if we have a seperate cleanup action (e.g. && cleanup) that we can do explicitly.
[Jacob] Re test cleanup: https://github.com/helm/community/pull/90#discussion_r297374923
The second test proposal is based on a lot of feedback and conversations. The first one should be closed shortly.
Lots of people are using this very often, and is very popular -- so thanks for driving this Michelle!
[Michelle] Current implementation just has to have the right annotation, doesn’t need to have the tests in the templates test directory -- this has an implication on backwards compatibility.
Assignments
Moderator: Taylor
Notes: Josh

June 20, 2019
Announcements
Helm Summit update
Standup
Taylor
Have been working on troubleshooting an issue where certain objects aren’t being updated on an upgrade (for Helm 2)
Some of the folks over at Mattermost have a reproducible case, so working with them
Josh
This week, been giving talks/evangelising Helm in the midwest
Hoping to connect with Matt Fisher on the registry work going on in Helm 3
Martin
Concentrating on the migration work from Helm 2 to Helm 3
Looking on the release metadata differences between Helm 2 and Helm 3
PR reviews
Matt Fisher
Diving into the downloader package for Helm 3
Lots of cruft in there, so cleaning up the code
Working on Helm summit
Matt Farina
Releasing a new version of sprig
Working on the capabilities object for Helm 3
Reviewing PRs
Discussion
Helm 3 OCI: enforcement of tags (joshua)
OCI does not have a ruleset on the tag pushed
The current context in Helm is to not push non-semver tags
Do we want to allow semver-incompatible tags?
(fisher and farina) if we do support those, then it makes the dependency resolution problem much harder
If there’s enough demand, perhaps we should come up with a proposal to the UX so we can capture that use case
New docs: https://v3.helm.sh/docs/developing_charts/#registries
PR reviews (matt and adam)
Current status: Helm 2 requires 2 LGTMs on PRs size/L or higher. Helm 3 requires 2 LGTMs on *all* PRs
How do we get more people to jump in on PR reviews?
What can we do to incentivize folks to review PRs?
Taylor: perhaps it’s not the PR review itself, but the lack of coverage on tests that are causing blocks on PR reviews? Could we implement some form of acceptance test suite?
Action item: farina to bring it back to the mailing list?
Should we cut 2.14.2 when this PR lands? https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5532 (Taylor)
Kubernetes 1.15 was just released yesterday. Should we wait on merging support for that before cutting a new release?
There may not be enough release maintainers around to cut a 2.15 any time soon
Action item: taylor to follow up with Martin on a 2.14.2 release
Josh: I’m planning on cutting a new release of ChartMuseum soon. It’d be great to put that onto https://get.helm.sh. How can we accomplish that?
Fisher: actually I’ve been wanting to write some documentation on the architecture, how to upload assets there, etc. Getting ChartMuseum onboard would be a great “pilot program” so we can start getting that documentation for onboarding other projects
Action item: Josh to follow up with Fisher
Assignments
Moderator: Martin
Notes: Matt Fisher

June 13, 2019
Announcements
Helm Summit
Co-chair committee met up this week. Program Committee is currently reviewing proposals. After that, chairs will assemble the schedule.
Standup
Matt Fisher
Taking a look at one of the helm 3 refactors: the OCI registry integration
Taking a closer look at the getter package for fetching helm charts and refactoring
Going through helm 3 PRs
Matt Butcher
Keeping tabs on a few things in the helm issue queue
Adam
Working on the XDG base directory specification + removal of `helm init`
Michelle Noorali
Working on `helm test`, currently refactoring
Martin Hickey
Updated the release checklist from 2.14.0
Testing around the v2 to v3 migration, working on a migration doc
Some issues around release metadata
Taylor
Reviewing CFPs on the Helm Summit
Looking at the coalescing tables refactor in Helm 2
Ramping up on Helm 3
Josh
Giving Helm talks next week with Bridget
Scott
Same as taylor this week
Matt Farina
Working on detecting objects in the capabilities object
Working on Helm Hub for Helm 3
Discussion
Proposal to drop the title “issue sherpa” (fisher)
Is this a shared responsibility?
Michelle: we should still have someone on-call to ensure someone is taking a look at security-related issues
Farina: we do have a process in place about who is responsible for security issues (in helm/community, SECURITY.md)
Action item: fisher to bring it to the core maintainers mailing list
v2 release object from state not loading in v3 (martin)
This is in relation to the release object stored in the namespace, not the rendering engine itself
Part of it is because we were encoding the gRPC protobuf. Once that was removed, we are now only encoding the JSON object. For example, enums
If we’re planning on migrating Helm release objects from Helm 2 to Helm 3, we should work on a migration plugin that reads old release objects and spits out Helm 3 release objects.
Action item: it’s suggested to write a proposal on how the complexities between the differences between Helm 2 and Helm 3’s object metadata and a planned proposal for moving forward (martin)
CRDs - https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5871 (farina)
Idea from adnan. Farina threw something up to the mailing list for a call-to-action from community feedback
If you have comments/feedback, please chime in on that PR
Unsetting values keys for Helm 3: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5834
How do we want to address this? Deprecation or remove it?
Farina: how would you unset it in a values.yaml file?
Adam: when you set a value, that value is persisted throughout the release history. If it’s explicitly set as `nil`, then we can explicitly check for new values
A simple example of this is probes. It’s becoming increasingly common to unset values for execute vs http probes
If time, check in about Lua chart post-render overrides (Scott)
Assignments
Issue Sherpa
Moderator
Scott
Notes
Michelle

June 6, 2019
Announcements
Helm has a new home for downloads: https://get.helm.sh
Three main benefits to this move:
No more changes required for users if we have to switch storage providers in the future
Users in China can now download the Helm client using official download URLs. No mirrors required!
Global content delivery via CDN. Downloads should be faster across the globe.
Helm Summit
CFPs are closed now
Program Committee is reviewing the CFPs. June 14/15 is when the reviews finish and the co-chairs will do the scheduling. More to come.
Standup
Brian
Mic not working
Moving and Lua work
Matt Butcher
Gone all week. Just been tracking issues
Matt Farina
Working on being able to detect individual resources
Looking into popping those up into the capabilities object for checking if resources exist
The Helm Hub is receiving about 5-6 new repos per week, so working on some of the growing pains over in monocular
Michelle
Working on helm test refactor
Updated the helm test proposal based on feedback
Updated people interested in helping with helm test work
Matt Fisher
Migrated to get.helm.sh. No downtime or issues. Yay!
Working on community PRs for Helm. In particular Helm
Discussion
Alibaba Cloud hopes to book a slot to share a bit about its “Helm Hub China” project which is non-profit mirror of hub.helm.sh in China with speedup and localization. (Lei Zhang)
Slides: https://speakerdeck.com/resouer/helm-hub-china-project-from-alibaba-cloud
Things hosted in Google & S3, like charts and images in them, are not available in China
Localization! That includes content in charts?
Yes! We: 1. periodically clone charts from hub.helm.sh, 2. replace unavailable contents (storage, registry etc) in the yaml, 3. CI verify the Charts can run on a local k8s 4. publish “localized” Charts to Helm Hub China portal
Built on chartmuseum, free to use, storage in Alibaba
Preview at developer.aliyun.com/hub
Still in development
We would like to link to this when it launches
Unsetting values keys for Helm 3: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5834 (Taylor)
(fisher): Taylor is out today due to on-call work last night. He mentioned Scott may be able to talk about this
Assignments
Issue Sherpa:
Moderator: Matt Farina
Notes: Matt Fisher
May 30, 2019
Announcements
Everyone survived KubeCon
Helm Summit CFPs are due 5/31
Please submit CFPs, especially use cases for Helm!
Helm Hub charts available over registry here to play with: bundle.bar
Standup
Taylor
KubeCon
Working on CFP
Helm 3 tasks
Butcher
Reviewing PRs this week
Will be out next week, so not much
Josh
Issue sherpa last week,
looking into a few issues with Regis
Nikhil
Watching KubeCon videos and responding to issues
Scott
Fixed Helm Hub automation. Thanks to Matt for reviewing
Want to understand what we will be able to do with LUA for charts for Helmv3 (can discuss afterwards)
Brian
Been moving, so a lot of packing
Hoping to get back to Lua development for Alpha2
Looking into the go reflect layer
Fisher
At Kubecon, Deep dive with Adam + Intro with Michelle
Expense reports, getting back into the swing of things
Martin
At Kubecon last week as well
Issue triage, PR reviews, and answering questions in Slack
Is next week the review of CFPs?
[Fisher] Hoping to get more information out on this from the Program committee ~Wednesday next week
Updates to the release checklist, and get back to migration
Farina
Charts and Helm hub
Helm hub is now automated! Yay!
Discussion
Features added to Helm 3 project board so community can help deliver Helm 3 release [martin]
Created this so folks can pick up features off the board and work on it.
Board is at: https://github.com/helm/helm/projects/1
Core things that we want to get done now; can build on top of it later (e.g. XDG directory changes will break compat, but will be good) We have a window to get changes in that have a potential to be backwards incompatible.
Signing and container repos [matt farina]
How do we go about sticking charts in container repos
Provenance file has hash of package, signed using gpg keys
Container repos don’t necessarily have the same hash in different container repos (e.g. docker-distribution, quay, etc.)
Interesting conversation with OCI folks: Why does the hash change across container registries. There is the index, and the container layers + metadata. The index changes over time, but the content is unchanged? Radu has been looking at this as well for CNAB (how do we sign the bundle and get one signature that we can use to verify across repositories).
How does this work with tuf and notary?
We have alternatives to GPG keys as well -- some folks want to use PKI instead.
Helm is different in one way -- you can sign locally and upload the chart and provenance separately. This is because the hash doesn’t contain the name of the repository. Could also look into some of the other things like hierarchical key distribution vs. flat.
Registry things undiscussed [josh]
This is a longer discussion, so probably a better idea to schedule a 30+ minute slot to hash this out.
Play with bundle.bar -- there are now ~600 charts
2.14 + Azure issue? [josh]
https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5788
Issue where helm keeps logging out when login is done with az-cli
Since this is an ecosystem problem, this will be a problem with kubectl
Looks like an issue with a backwards incompatible change with client-go
Check to see if there is a corresponding issue with
Assignments
Moderator: Matt Fisher
Notes: Matt Farina
Issue Sherpa: Matt Fisher

May 16, 2019
Announcements
v3.0.0-alpha.1 released (Hooray!) 🎉
v2.14.0 released ☘️
KubeCon/Cloud Native Con EU Barcelona, Mon 20 - Thu 23 May (next week) - No dev meeting next week (23rd)
CFPs due May 31st
Standup
Butcher
PR reviewing for v3
Fisher
Working on v3 Alpha.1
v2.14.0 pairing with Martin
 Preparing for KubeCon Helm 101 and deep dive talks
Michelle
Preparing for KubeCon
WIP: helm test framework
Adam
Working on v3 Alpha.1
Preparing for KubeCon
Taylor
PR review
Preparing for Helm workshop on Monday at KubeCon
Martin
Yay last library/charts functionality went in!
Also fixed the dry-run output for v3.
Shadowed v2.14.0 release to get that out the door.
Nikhil
Issue sherpa
PR reviews
Farina
Cleanup of owner files
Issues
PRs (lint work etc.)
Discussion
Karen is looking to do more with our community blog. We’d like to make it easier to contribute blog post topics. PR #84 is a place to start. It adds a document that people can us to contribute blog post topics. We can iterate on this process and create a full fledge form, blog contribution guide. Thoughts? (Michelle)
Seems like a good approach
Michelle to chat again with Karen
Some topic raised in community (Martin):
Multiple environment best practices
Micro-services best practices
History/state stored details
We should create a helm org maintainers mailing list if that’s not already a thing and publish it on the communication doc of the Helm community repo so people know where to have discussions around cross cutting topics that concern the helm community and github org. (Michelle)
(fisher) I believe this already exists, we just need to document it: cncf-helm-maintainers@lists.cncf.io
(michelle) that is for helm core maintainers I believe. We need one just for org maintainers in case people higher order concerns and concerns across multiple projects. I don’t see where the cncf-helm-maintainers mailing list info is published. We should also make the goal of the mailing lists clearer.
cncf-helm-core-maintainers@lists.cncf.io is for core maintainers, but cncf-helm-maintainers is for org maintainers. It’s a little unclear for sure
[Action] Farina to document the different mailing lists
People have been asking how to help and get involved. We could have a github project board for “roles” that we need. i.e. “someone to triage helm 2 issues”, “someone to triage helm 3 issues”, someone to help with release management”, “someone to help us figure out a  release planning process”, etc. Kubernetes has a role board for this. (Michelle)
Assignments (for the 30th (week after KubeCon))
Moderator: Adam
Notes: Nikhil
Issue Sherpa: Josh

May 09, 2019
Announcements
CFP May 31st
Standup
Adam
Missed last week due to a team meeting
Working on some core reviews, prepping for the first alpha release
Published a proposal on the v3 release rollout
Josh
Working on the oras project, getting things like `helm registry login` implemented for Helm 3
Martin
Mostly working on PR reviews
Thinking of the v2 -> v3 migration document
Matt Fisher
Missed last week due to a team meeting
Figured out things left for Alpha release
Worked on proposal
Working on solution for moving out of Google Cloud Storage
Brian
Missed last week due to a team meeting
Working on conversion packages from Go to Lua
Working on prototype code for Alpha 2
Matt Farina
Issue sherpa
Pulling over v2 commits needed for v3
Matt Butcher
CNCF meetings for graduation
Security audit after Beta 1 of Helm 3
Good progress on graduation and good feedback
New branding for Helm 3 release inc. CNCF org look and feel
KubeConEU sessions and workshops filling up
Org maintainers maturing
Some PR reviews
Discussion
Proposal: Rollout of v3 release #5695 (adam)
High level plan of deliverables
Can add comments to the issue
Helm 2: Anything else we should get in before we cut v2.14.0-rc.1? (fisher)
We should get in the postgres storage layer PR in (butcher to review): https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5371
Demo: https://get.helm.sh (fisher)
Nice demo :)
Opinionated OCI namespacing/versioning + dropping search + repo subcommand as plugin (josh)
Assignments
Moderator: Matt Farina
Notes: Josh (Martin to deputize)
Issue Sherpa: Nikhil

May 02, 2019
Announcements


Standup
Farina
Working on search (starting with API on Monocular/helm hub)
Sprig and SemVer new major release planning with Dr. Butcher
Butcher
His team putting out a series of Helm 3 blog posts on the MS blog
Most of his team at DockerCon and breakout to work on Helm 3
Looking for Alpha v1 by KubeCon EU
Martin
Triaged issues
Issues to v2 and v3 on scaffolding charts
From the community
Morten
Issues with proto files and get the generation and tests working
Working on a fix
Discussion
https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5664
Can’t switch default behavior because it would break scripts using helm in the wild
A flag could be added for this feature to opt-in to it
https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5650
We don’t have a precedence for doing this.
The pattern we have is to link to external related docs
How is Helm going to handle CRDs?
We needs docs on CRDs
Ability to detect if CRD is installed as part of crd-install hook and/or capabilities
CRDs are HARD! [farina 2019]
Assignments
Moderator: Butcher
Notes: Martin
Issue Sherpa: Farina

April 25, 2019
Announcements
Helm Summit update [Michelle]
Helm summit CFPs are now open at: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/helm-summit-2019/program/call-for-proposals/
Priyanka Sharma
Standup
Taylor Thomas
Working on PRs this week, reviewing feature PRs
Should think about cutting 2.14 after KubeCon at least the rc for it
Farina
Monocular search API work to tie it into helm search for v3
Foxish has become inactive on charts… moved to emeratus
Reviewed PRs, yo
Nikhil
Out last week
Getting back into the swing of things
Martin
Out last week
Getting back into things
Did some PR reviews and put in a few PRs
Made it to the program committee! Woo
Will go back to working on the helm v2 -> v3 migration docs
Michelle
Helm test PR is in - works now!
Trying to finish up refactor, so others can jump in as well.
Also working on the Helm Summit stuff
Butcher
Out last week
Took a look at a bunch of code that Brian wrote on the lua repo
Will meet with Adam later today
Brian
Working on the lua runtime
Getting all of the latest code out
Adam
Reviewing PRs
Longer reviews because PRs are touching similar parts of the codebase
Getting those reviews finished up this week
Ian
Getting new tests in before EOD for testing for subcharts on the schema validation PR
Dan Garfield
Chatted with Josh about migrating CICD to use codefresh
Started working on the migration
Hoping to get things in a place to review by next week
Scott Rigby
Looking at the doc this afternoon
There is a regression from something added to helm values coalescing. It’s a key deletion issue. Someone else took that on to fix it. Reviewing that PR. Will paste in helm-dev. Would like another person to review that.
Discussion
How detailed should our CONTRIBUTING guide be? https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5346
This PR may target different audiences specifically people who are not familiar with GitHub. Is that what we want?
[Martin]
[michelle] Copy/paste command options are nice for even power users of GitHub
[Taylor]
Matt Farina will follow up and merge PR
$schema in values for json schema? https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5350#issuecomment-485852606
Multiple editors support the top level $schema line but it’s not part of the official spec. Informal thing.
If someone copies/pastes a values file, they still want that validation but it’s again not part of the official spec
Matt Farina will open a separate issue so we can have an async discussion on it and sit on it for a few days
https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5601 [Adam]
This is something that is used in the stable charts today. Do we want to break compatibility with v2 here?
We could potentially create tooling to convert charts
V3, migration and users [Martin]
Assignments
Moderator: Taylor Thomas
Notes: Matt Farina
Issue Sherpa: Martin Hickey

April 18, 2019
Announcements
Helm Summit update
September 11-12, 2018 in Amsterdam
CFP form and conference website is live
Be on the lookout for program committee notifications
Link: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/helm-summit-2019/
Standup
Fisher
Working with Ronan. Ronan has been working on the Helm 3 design work and the Helm Summit logo. Trying to get multiple different versions of the helm documentation available on helm.sh so that you can click between versions for documentation
Looking at how Jaeger has done it for their documentation
Working with Bridget as well on this stuff
Re-integrating OCI work into top level commands. Helm package,etc.
Michelle
Pretty deep into the internals of `helm test` for Helm 3
Using client-go for watching the test pods
Trying to refactor the unit tests for the working test run commands
Josh
Submitted the initial PR for registry login: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5597
Brian
pushed branch to Azure/golua with the Go API changes. Working to solidify the function binding interface to finalize the standard libraries. Need to address runtime information collection on an error when unwinding the stack
Adam
Out last week with Flu
Catching up on PR reviews and getting back up to speed
Dan Garfield
CodeFresh is interested in offering a grant to the Helm project to use for CI/CD and chart repository hosting
Michelle: let’s follow up in the mailing list, and set up a meeting to determine what conversations we need to have RE: grants
Ian Howell
Made progress on schema validation
Discussion
Release/ReleaseVersion CRDs status+questions (Josh)
Tillerless right now is still using configmaps/secrets/in-memory. Same as Tiller was. Switch to CRD would ideally be in alpha but if it has to get bumped, it may.
Concern over RBAC and permission model
Now, RBAC is mapped to user. RBAC will be identical to what kubectl does right now
Define what Helm creates for you and give an overview on what permissions a cluster admin should give a user
Josh will create a follow up issue
Alpha.1 release (michelle)
Looking at the board, most things for alpha.1 are in the review phase now.
Should take about a week and a half
Assignments
Moderator: Adam
Notes: Michelle
Issue Sherpa: Fisher will follow up on mailing list for people

April 11, 2019
Announcements
Helm Summit EU updates [michelle]
Helm Summit Program Committee form is now closed and will be announced soon.
Helm venue and dates have been confirmed for September 11-12, 2019 in Amsterdam.
lHelm Summit website will be launched next week along with the CFP form. Be thinking of topics for sessions, lightning talks, and tutorials/workshops.
Standup
Taylor
Working on issue triage/PR triage this week
Going to work on replicating a particular PR next week
WOuld be great if someone with bash autocompletion could take a look at https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5562
Josh
Back from holidays
Working on the oras project on the `helm login` stuff
Matt Butcher
Working on things related to the timeline and the Lua stuff
Kubecon will be alpha.1
After Kubecon, we’ll be transitioning to further alpha releases (possible 3?)
That should bring us to a beta around July
That should be the time when we get a CNCF security audit, which should bring us to CNCF graduation
Brian and I paired on Lua integration yesterday. Found a significant recursion issue where the stack isn’t being copied, so Brian’s working on a fix
Matt Fisher
Program committee stuff squared away for Helm Summit
Paired with Josh on the oras project and getting up to speed on what needs to be done
Specifically interested in credential handling
Review PR #5441 (not rendering templates inside of library chart) is on the list of things to review
Pairing with Ronan on getting alpha documentation for Helm v3
Martin
Working on some PR/issue reviews and triaging this week
Jumped in on the v2 -> v3 migration doc this week
Michelle
Working on Helm Summit stuff with Fisher, Karen, Ronan
Picked up some of the helm test work
Found a few rendering errors so diving a little deeper into the rendering/label selection code
Scott
Helping Reinhard with the charts-testing project
Working to automate the Helm Hub
Discussion
What’s the process for creating new slack channels now that we’re part of the CNCF? [fisher]
For context, Helm is now part of the CNCF. There exists a CNCF Slack, but Helm slack channels still exist in the Kubernetes slack.
We have not had to create a channel since the CNCF migration, but Scott Rigby wants to create a channel for helm/chart-releaser
Lachie mentioned last time he checked in January, the CNCF slack is only for CNCF related business and temporary channels on an ad-hoc basis
CNCF projects like OPA and Kubernetes should manage and maintain their own Slack workspace
Fisher will ask Scott to ask the Kubernetes org if they’ll create a channel for him
Credential helpers for `helm login`? [fisher]
Fisher and josh will pair together, but it looks like they work out of the box
Assignments
Moderator: Taylor
Notes: Michelle Noorali
Issue Sherpa: Matt Fisher

April 4, 2019
Announcements
Martin has been voted in as a core maintainer
Standup
Taylor:
PRs this week, around the atomic flag
Review deleting resources
Continue on with PR reviews
Martin
Working on 2 PRs for the `make docs` target for Helm 3
Lib charts and app version are ready for review on Helm 3
Fisher: will definitely take a look at those, just have some things working on at the moment
Investigating a bug around removing a service account and how it isn’t removed from child dependencies (pods relying on the service account)
Looking into another PR with `helm list`for Helm 3:
Matt Fisher:
Refactors in Helm 3
Looking at OCI integrations (refactoring). Full integrations of repo with Helm CLI.
Blog post with Bridget for KubeCon EU
Brian:
Final integrations of the GO Lua projects
Update soon in repo
Adam:
Working with PRs ands issues in Helm 3
Fleshing out idea of removing helm init and lazy creating
Charts rendering as atomic units in progress

Discussion
Update on Helm 3 development progress [fisher]
Assignments
Moderator: Martin
Notes: Matt Fisher
Issue Sherpa: Taylor

March 28, 2019
Announcements
http://www.cloudnativeday.ca/en/program/ is looking for Helm speakers
Helm program committee form still open for a day for Helm Summit… https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeMWnylHu1Yi6SmwKYvitrJxqNpBVAVXtMunjaiqkNAGkeG7g/viewform
Standup
Michelle
Working on `helm test run`.  Making it work.  Looking into using k8s Jobs
Threw out helm test results for now because there are a lot of decisions around storage that need to be made and it’s not necessary right now.
Brian
Working on the path forward for Lua.  Finishing up stdlib for lua tables.  Defining api for getting values out of lua into go.
Fisher
Booked travel for giving KubeCon deep dive talk with Adam
JSONSchema research
Reviewed Ian’s PR
Reviewing plugin arch
Butcher
On Vaca all last week.  Missed everyone esp Adam
Taylor
MOVED HOUSES!
Working with go modules, having a blast.
Nikhil
Away last week, this week reviewing issues and PR’s
Adam
Been doing prep for KubeCon EU, thinking about the deep dive session
Doing some PR reviews around some of the Helm 3 architecture changes
Looking over the client architecture with a fine-toothed comb (event interrupts, for example)
Matt Farina
Working on the Go modules stuff
Found some issues with Go modules so we’re holding off, but we’ll have to keep a close eye on upstream work in this regard
Let the community test it out and provide feedback
Taylor: I have another PR with Go modules. Should we close this? https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5520
Farina: looks like that’s for master vs. Helm 3
Discussion
Is ‘make docs’ target still relevant? Ref: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5458
Intent was to keep the target around so that users can have the option of generating docs
There is an effort for helm v3 to take the docs under a different location
Mhickey will take it offline with folks to work out what the PR needs to evolve to.
Lua in Helm v3 and golua [mattfarina]


There are a few bug fixes that need another review for Helm 2.14 [fisher]:
https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/4871
https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5112
https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5395
Assignments
Issue sherpa: Nikhil
Moderator: Matt Fisher
Notes: Martin


March 21, 2019
Announcements
2.13.1
Standup
Josh
There was a chartmuseum bug that affected Harbour, waiting on a response from them
Continuing work on the Helm 3 repo docs
Matt Farina
Poking at Go modules a bit, as the next version of Go enables it by default
Brian
Working on the Go Lua standard libraries based on some of the core changes over the past few months
Pairing with adam today on the lua implementation for Helm
Matt Fisher
Working on the XDG base directory PR
Lightly reviewed Ian Howell’s schema values PR, need to manually review
Working on a Helm 3 high-level overview blog post
Matt Butcher
On vacation for the next week
Discussion
Lua timeline/milestones [josh]
Wanted to clear up some of the story for Lua in far as Alpha is concerned
Brian: so the current idea is to use it as an overlay as part of the rendering engine
Josh: based on prior information (Matt Butcher’s blog post on sweetcode), I thought we could pass in a chart metadata, values etc. into the lua engine to generate pods.
Fisher: can we propose to discuss this next week? We don’t have a physical integration of Helm and Lua at this point yet
General consensus is to table the discussion once we have a Helm/Lua integration
Helm 2.13.1 release [fisher]
Matt Fisher will go ahead and release 2.13.1
Assignments
Issue sherpa: Matt Fisher
Moderator: Matt Farina
Notes: Adam Reese

March 14, 2019
Announcements


Standup
Josh
Met with a few people this week about the Lua subsystem to discuss how that relates to Helm 3
Working on the Helm 3 repository documentation
Matt Butcher
Helm Summit planning (EU)
Sprig updates
PR reviewing on community PRs
Martin
Sherpa-ing
PR reviews
PR for standard application charts (library charts)
#5441
Helping on slack channels
Adam
Met with people about docs changes (v2->v3 changes)
Label for PRs that require a
Vanity import path
Scott
Fixed Helm Hub search
Looking into Hub deployment automation
LastPass setup
CNCF prefers we use this
Fisher
Helm 3!
Refactoring “helm template” to action pkg
Major action pkg refactor (thx adam)
Community PRs
PR for storing Helm Home in XDG spec
https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5443
This coming week working on FAQ, planning etc
Justin
Triage, catching up starting tmrw
Discussion
Deprecate “helm search” in Helm 3? [josh]
Sent a message to mailing list asking if anyone uses this and received no response
Has no function in a CI/automation setting
“Underpowered” since it only looks at local cache
Users can go to hub.helm.sh
Once remote search is rolled into OCI, we can add this feature back (in 3.1, 3.2 etc.)
Should we cherry-pick https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5423 into 2.13.1? [fisher]
Vanity import path #5440 [adam]
“helm.sh/helm”
Separates Helm 2 and Helm 3 in go path
Open PRs will have to rebase
There is a sed script to do this
Will enable other proj under the Helm org
When should we cut a 2.13.1? [fisher]
Lua timeline [josh]
Assignments
Issue sherpa: Martin/Justin
Moderator: Josh
Notes: Matt Fisher

March 7, 2019
Announcements
Program Committee Applications are now open. Please fill out this form if you’re interested. Deadline to apply is March 29th, 2019. [michelle]
Helm Summit update [michelle]
Planning on Helm Summit 2nd week of September
Venue in Amsterdam is on hold -- things are looking good.
Look above for program committee application. Help conference chairs review CFPs. Adam / Fisher are two of the three co-chairs, we’re looking for a 3rd from the community (fill out the checkbox at the end)
Standup
Butcher
Opened a PR on Helm 2 to update the version of sprig to one that should be used.
 Nikhil
Working with a customer engagement so nothing to report this week
Adam
Past week -- Helm 3 momentum picking up. More to come during the Helm 3 discussion.
Lot of refactoring of the engine package - diving in to the go-templates package.
Michelle
Took some time to work on helm-test. Helm test run is now a subcommand. Digging more into getting the test response back.
Refactoring the initial proposal for helm test. Revising the proposal to continue using anotations and adding support for test suites
Fisher
Pairing with folks to figure out Helm 3 project planning.
Late last week - bigger refactor for action package. Will return to that to figure out what can be pulled out to make it cleaner.
Adnan
Not much this week
Josh
Not a huge lot, still trying to mess with LUA and connect with Brian
Get Helm repo docs out by end of the week.
Martin
Libchart -- should have a PR by tomorrow.
Looking at a few issues on the Slack channel and answered a few questions
Took a look at issues tagged with good first issues and have some feedback -- some of these have changes and might not be good first issues any longer.
Farina
A lot of chart stuff including reviews.
Helped Fisher with some Windows stuff and was psyched!
Security process for the Helm org document is up.

A big shout-out to Fisher for getting the Helm 3 project plan organized!

Discussion
Make crd-install hook idempotent [mattfarina]
Charts repo is seeing issue from this
Error if the content is different on first pass
In the future we could discuss a flag that allows overwriting if different
Was also proposed over on https://github.com/helm/community/pull/64
Discussion:
Make CRD hook idempotent -- could this be a problem? Should work, but the trick is deleting the CRDs. Case where 2 things install the same CRD => we should be able to achieve this including for Helm3.
(Adnan) built a workaround
Helm 3 status update [fisher] 👈
https://github.com/helm/helm/projects/1
The goal is to understand what are the things we are quantifying for an alpha release of Helm 3.
Paired with core-maintainers to figure out what should be in an alpha release. What we have currently, and what we would like to have in there.
When we go through this backlog, we should be able to cut an alpha release.
Feedback / Comments:
This is awesome! Thanks!
Changes with Helm 3 fall into different buckets. E.g. LUA, repo, tillerless, etc. Does it make sense to make labels for these bigger “themes”.
Might be difficult to do since lines are sometime blurred between components. E.g. refactoring of the engine piece.
This would help with filtering by theme -- especially as we add more items to the board. There might be a parallel with SIGs, perhaps?
This might be a good thing to add at some point later perhaps when we go from alpha => beta.
(fisher / josh) Let’s table the discussion for now and revisit this once we are a bit further along.
#helm slack channel moderators, we need them [mattfarina]
https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/communication/moderation.md
We’re in k8s Slack and they are looking for moderators.
Especially in EMEA / APAC region time-zones.
Don’t need to necessarily need be core maintainers. It would be good if anyone in the community can be Slack moderators.
Request for feedback on resource policy PR: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5092
Has to do with deleting manifests.
Call to folks who understand this space to comment.
First commit is what’s changing in the application logic.
There might have been some uncaught changes -- so might be good to run some manual tests. Fisher will have some time to hopefully take this on last week.
Assignments
Issue sherpa: Martin
Moderator: Fisher (/ Adam, tag team)
Notes: Josh
February 28, 2019
Announcements
Helm 2.13.0 was released yesterday
The first release that is PGP signed. Go try it out!
Standup
Michelle: Helm v3 test
Taylor
Today will be trying to get through a PR from a community member
Josh
Diving deep into GoLua
Going to experiment with embedding the Lua engine in Helm 3
Fisher
Paired with Farina on the Helm 2.13 release
Working on the Helm 3 action package refactor
Butcher
Kubernetes meetup in Boulder with ReactiveOps
Might be a good team to contact on the action package refactor
Brian
Working on the GoLua compiler for parity with luac
Using the output from gluac against the lua runtime for testing
Moving some code around but should hopefully be merged in the next few days
Pairing with Josh next week on Helm and Lua
Martin
Working through some PRs to close them out
Issue triaging
Matt Farina
Working on CII best practices for CNCF graduation
Ian Howell
Working on the JSON schema
Question: should we generate a JSON schema out of the gate?
Solution: there’s not a great answer for this but Ian’s been playing with a few solutions. Play around a bit and see what happens
Nikhil
Nothing to report this week
Discussion
v3 contributor work (mhickey)
Fisher and Adam working on this to get some of the initial pieces out (client-package, v3-board) so that we can move forward.
Would be useful to have a discussion, perhaps on another call, about helm 3 specific pieces. Perhaps an hour long backlog grooming session (post-it note style?). Schedule a time for this when Adam is back?
How can other contributors help with this, to get this unstuck / moving?
Fisher will come up with a workable list of helm v3 basic issues and float it to the rest of the team.
Good first issues (mhickey)
We have about 9 of them, 6/7 of which are somewhat stale.
Mhickey will put in some comments and float it to other folks on the project.
List of good first issues: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22
OCI Update - not much to share.
Folks were okay with using the manifest / index at the top layer (Steve / Jimmie’s proposal)
Not clear if there are any changes here. There were some discussions on the index and the media-type on yesterday’s call. Would be useful to look through the notes of yesterday’s call.
Notes from yesterday’s OCI call: http://ircbot.wl.linuxfoundation.org/meetings/opencontainers/2019/opencontainers.2019-02-27-21.59.html
Latest Proposal using manifest.config.mediaType but no solution at the index: https://github.com/SteveLasker/RegistryArtifactTypes/blob/master/mediaTypes.md
Farina will try to jump in and get some clarity here.
Assignments
Issue sherpa: Matt Fisher
Moderator: Farina
Notes: Nikhil
February 21, 2019
Announcements
Helm 2.13.0-rc.2 was released Tuesday
Helm Summit Update:
Waiting on CNCF to get back
Looking at costs etc.
Might know more by early next week
Standup:
Josh: Looking at the LUA language
Adnan: Looked at library charts. Added comment to the issue.
Michelle:
Collecting feedback from CNCF projects for improvement
Continue on Helm test
Nikhil:
Looking into v3 work
Matt Farina:
Reviews
Crypto signing delivered with Matt Fisher
Taylor:
Going to be reviewing this week
Brian: Meta tables in lua to override operators
Adam:
Working on builder to manipulate charts in lua
Populate issue
Matt Fisher:
PR reviews
Helm v3 action package refactoring
Martin: Library chart feature merged
Scott:
Laser github app
Discussion
Lua plans?
https://github.com/jdolitsky/goluamapper
Brian working on an idiomatic go interface in lua
Not going to be modelling charts at start with lua
Design shortly on the syntax of lua in charts
1MB limit w/ no tiller?,
In Helm dev question about map being too big
etcd limit: 1M . Not a limitation of Helm. All Kubs objects have this issue.
https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/blob/master/Documentation/dev-guide/limit.md#request-size-limit
Some discussions on using an alternative backend to etcd
Assignments
Issue sherpa: Martin
Moderator: Taylor (not Josh)
Notes: Nikhil
February 14, 2019
Announcements
Helm 2.13.0-rc.1 was released yesterday
Helm repo working group call cancelled. Now gone to the OCI space.
Join CNCF #artifact-registry
Helm Summit Update
Working with CNCF on a venue for September
May need sponsors
If your company would be willing, please contact Michelle and I will get you in touch with the right people
Standup
Michelle
Merged PRs
Working on POC for Helm test v3
Iterating on the initial helm test proposal for v3
Butcher
Working on grpc changes
Reviewed martins patch
Discussion
Scott: The Helm Community Incubator page hasn't updated in 2 years. Let's discuss what should be updated, if that hasn't already been done elsewhere?
Adam: 2 LGTM policy for dev-v3 branch
Fisher: will add this to the CONTRIBUTING.md in dev-v3
Asking for status: What is the status for Helm Summit 2019?
Discussed in announcements
Fisher: bringing back up issue #2039. How do we want to cryptographically sign Helm releases?
Butcher: TUF/Notary looks like the right approach for v3
For v2 we probably want to cryptographically sign all the assets and upload the signatures via Circle
Support "delete" resource policy in Helm 2? (PR)
Fisher will have a look at it next week
Assignments
Issue sherpa: matt fisher
Moderator: adam
Notes: martin

February 7, 2019
Announcements
Good First Issue App added
Twitter account will tweet out our issues if we put a label on it
Standup
Josh
Helm 3 initial registry stuff merged! See PR #5243
We’ll have to continue the discussion around how this will affect the rest of the Helm commands
Matt Farina
Merged some PRs, talked on some OCI stuff
Michelle
Going to work on some new helm test stuff
Brian
Isolating difficult APIs in lua spec for manipulating tables
Hybrid array+hashtable
Refactoring on call stack to support proper tail recursion
Matt Fisher
Helm 3 PR reviews, PR reviews
Looking at some Helm 3 things this coming week
Giving dev-v3 a try on Windows, found some bugs
CFPs!
Taylor
Wasn’t able to do much this week. Will be back to issue stuff and PRs this next week
Nikhil
Looking into curating issues in issue queue
Adam
Helm 3 stuff, mostly code reviews
Organizing top-level stuff
Martin
Mix btw v2 and v3
Triaging a bunch of issues
Starting on PR reviews
V3: broke down PR for -


Discussion
What’s the status on #5210? Are we ready to cut a v2.13.0? [fisher]
Upgrading GRPC for better TLS connection handling
Need to check w Matt Butcher
When the protos changes, people need to recompile their clients
Is there a way for us to fix issues without updating grpc?
Some community members are asking to cherry-pick a few PRs into a v2.12.4, most notably #5186. Should we cut a v2.12.4, and if so, are there other patches that need to be cherry-picked? [fisher]
What’s the timeline for 2.13?
Fisher will check with Butcher offline on the prior discussion item to get an idea how far out we are from a 2.13
Is this proposal are runner for v2/v3: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/3279 ?[mhickey]
Different than other tests, leaves pods around
Take a look at v3 proposal (link me)
Helm Summit update [michelle]
Still confirming an Amsterdam venue
2nd week of september
Working on program committee application


GSoC ?? [josh]
Ooo missed the deadline (yesterday)
Assignments
Issue Sherpa
Fisher
Adam (v3)
Martin (v2)
Moderator: Adam+Michelle COMBO
Notes: Martin
January 31, 2019
Announcements
Standups
Brian
Working on refactoring
Matt Farina
Adnan Abdulhussein
Michelle Noorali
Taylor
Reviewed atomic flag PR
Working on issues/PR this week
Martin
v3 work: Lib chart feature
Helm v3 status https://github.com/helm/helm/projects/1
Initial registry support PR: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5243
Discussion
Consider installing https://github.com/rajatjindal/goodfirstissue for helm org (Rajat)
What is Helm support of CRDs? Can it handle large CRDs? Open issue: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/4697
This will need to go to SIG Apps because of the wider scope of what this will affect.
Helm Summit Update
Working on locking down the venue and getting the CFP things ready
https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/3279 : Proposal for v2/v3?
https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5242 CNAB
Assignments
Issue Sherpa: Nik
Notes: Josh
Moderator: Adam
January 24, 2019
Announcements
CVEs for Helm+ChartMuseum vulns
Helm: (link me)
ChartMuseum: (link me)
Helm Summit is being rescheduled from March to the second week of September
Need more time to lock down venue + give travel time to attendees
Standups
Michelle
Issues and PRs triaging
Active in #helm-dev
Scott
Met w farina about Helm Hub deployment automation
Setup on CNCF service
Matt Butcher
https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/3480 : connect btw helm+tiller having issues, unsure why. “write: broken pipe”
Matt Fisher
Investigated #3480
Helm 3 repo discussions
Trying to offload some work from Adam
OCI docs based on meeting yesterday
Josh
OCI/Helm repo convos
Need to look into search + auth
Working on dev-v3 fork for push/pull
Matt Farina
Helm Hub: how do we scale? # of charts, user experience, etc
Potentially contractors from CNCF
OCI fun, specs
Nikhil
Closed out a couple issues, sherpa-ing some others
Adnan
Monocular issue/PRs
Martin
Issue sherpa-ing, passing things along
Closed out some PRs
Looking into v3 features


Helm v3 status https://github.com/helm/helm/projects/1
Discussion
Could we recap our approach to how we handle v2 fixes while the v3 branch is not yet accepting fixes (or maybe it is accepting them?). Is there a list of fixes waiting to be merged? Is there a tag that we should apply to v2 fixes that need to be ported across later? Etc. etc. (henrynash)
We need a clear policy...which is that v3 IS accepting fixes.
New label: #needs-v3-fix
Place this info somewhere, contributing.md (henrynash to do)
What is Helm support of CRDs? Can it handle large CRDs? Open issue: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/4697
Need to punt to next week when Adam returns. He had some actions on this and we don’t know the state
ChartMuseum + Monocular in Helm 3?
Monocular: need to change to own the Helm Hub experience
ChartMuseum: ???
What do we invest in terms of Google Summer of Code
Google Summer of Code: what projects should we propose?
Deadline for org submission: Feb 6
Deadline for students: April 9
Assignments
Issue Sherpa:
Nikhil
Michelle
Notes: Michelle
Moderator: Fisher

January 17, 2019
Announcements
Helm and ChartMuseum security releases out
Standups
Nikhil (had to miss call due to a conflict)
Last week, mostly worked on curating our issue queue. Hope to have some time to spend on it this week as well.
Fisher: had to miss due to an AKS all hands
Last week: participating in the helm 3 repo discussions, getting ramped up with Helm Summit committee prep, triaging tickets
This week: wants to write a blog post on the current status of the Helm 3 repo discussions
Butcher: had to miss due to an AKS all hands
Farina:
ChartMuseum and Helm security release work
Took charts in container registries to the OCI for direction. Jimmy Z has a strawman that was generally accepted at the OCI meeting
Josh
ChartMuseum security release v0.8.1
Chart-scanner to check for the vuln: https://github.com/chartmuseum/chart-scanner
Things moving along w Helm 3 repos stuff, chats w OCI team
Life status changes
Martin
Delivered a feature for v3
Did issue queue triaging


Helm v3 status https://github.com/helm/helm/projects/1
Discussion
Helm can have an intro and/or deep dive in KubeCon+CloudNativeCon Barcelona. Who from the core team is interested in submitting to do an intro and/or deep dive? 2 maintainers per slot. [Michelle]
Should we support the --token and --insecure flags on helm v3? These are flags on kubectl. https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5159
Discussion on Bazel  in helm… https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5160
Likely pushing to a plugin
Assignments
Issue Sherpa:
Martin + Adam
Notes: Josh
Moderator: Farina

January 10, 2019
Announcements
KubeCon+CloudNativeCon Barcelona is in May and CFPs are due Jan 18th. Reach out to Michelle for CFP reviews if you’re interested in submitting and would like some help/guidance/advice.
Parallel flag PR got merged on helm test! Woot!
Standup
Josh
Been working on getting helm push/pull working. Has a working example! Should be ready to PR in a week
Fisher
Not too much to report this week. Going in to the helm 3 repo discussion and continued issue triaging
Michelle
Been issue triaging on issues for the past few weeks
If you aren’t working on Helm 3, we need your help to triage the large number of issues that still need it
Triaging #5118
Scott
Helping in the different repos as time permits
Working on a tool to help people get a helm repo from a git repo is on hold
Adnan
Not much for this week
Adam
Pretty much just Helm 3 work
Matt Farina
Working in the fun filled world of process. Need to get process things in place like a security reporting process before we can graduate
Have been meeting with the OCI people
Nikhil
Just got back from holidays, not too much to report from last week
Will be issue triaging this week
Taylor
Try to spend a little time tomorrow to triage the issue queue
Butcher
Trying to stay on top of the repo stuff
Doing a bunch of Helm 3 work
Getting close to having Helm Summit EU dates
Brian
Getting back into the swing of things after holidays
Helm v3 status https://github.com/helm/helm/projects/1
Merged a few PRs in to the v3 branch
Matt Farina is working on an actions package so other projects can consume it if desired
Code cleanup around build targets, makefile, infrastructure
Adam is focusing on the chartutils package
Discussion
Helm Summit 2019 - When? Where? How to help [carlos]
Michelle and Adam volunteered to start getting things rolling with CFP and the like
Should we cut a v2.12.2 with https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5132? [fisher]
We should validate that this is the same validation that k8s uses
Is this something that should be documented vs. a bug fix?
There was a new name restriction put in place for 2.12.0. This wasn’t quite up to spec to support subdomains
All hands on deck with issue triage and PR review [michelle]
If you’re a core maintainer and not working on helm v3, please help in the issue and PR queues this week.
If you’re a community member and would like to help, please help with issue triage or reviewing PRs. Leave comments on the PR or an LGTM in a comment on the PR. If you’re ready to put a label on an issue, tag Michelle. If you’ve given an LGTM on a PR and need another lgtm, tag Michelle in the github comment on the PR.
Helm 3 repos working group update
Go lib “oras”  for pushing any file to OCI-friendly registry: https://github.com/shizhMSFT/oras
Demo:

Cleaning up hooks - https://github.com/helm/charts/pull/10400 [adnan]
Should Helm CLI should have an option to delete hooks & other dependent things on delete
Assignments
Issue Sherpa:
Michelle + Nikhil + everyone
Notes: Scott
Moderator: Adam

January 3, 2019
Announcements
Helm 3 repos
Oras: POC pushing arbitrary data to a container registry
https://github.com/shizhMSFT/oras
Standup
Taylor
Working on diff issues and PRs as needed
Michelle
Triaging issues
Wants to pair with people interested in issue triage
Brian
Coroutines for Lua VM, Lua compiler
Fisher
Knows rust now
Josh
Worked on oras
?
Helm v3 status
Likely same place as pre xmas
Discussion
Organize/sort release notes #5119
Bugs and features are not distinguished
Also see https://goreleaser.com
Feedback https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/5110
Adding things to “helm create”
Need to work w charts maintainers
They have been assigned to the issue
Helm repo updates
Working w OCI on next steps
Whitelisting mediatypes
Search spec, to support “helm search” against only charts (not images)
#opencontainers IRC channel on freenode
OCI mailing list: https://groups.google.com/a/opencontainers.org/forum/#!forum/dev
Assignments
Issue Sherpa (2):
1: Matt Fisher
2: Michelle
Notes:
Taylor
Moderator:
Josh
