Helm Minutes for 2020

March 12, 2020
Assignments for this meeting:
Moderator: Matt Butcher
Notes:  Scott Rigby
Issue triage: Matt Fisher, Bridget Kromhout

Announcements
Early access to CNCF Hub is available: https://hub.cncf.io/
Standup
Bridget: not much this week
Taylor: Triage
Matt Fisher: Triage, follow ups
Adam: spent more time on deprecated k8s API versions
Marc: Added completion to 2to3 plugin. Finished fish shell completion. Reviewing in-memory cache concept
Martin: also quiet week. A few things around migration plugin. Added in capability to remove a release on cleanup. Good to see people using it, giving feedback etc. Thanks to Fisher for review of docs on library charts
Scott: not much this week, heads down. Yay about cncf hub!
Jacob: Worked on ownership issue. Adds a few new annotations we'd need to commit to, so please have a look. https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7649 After merge, plans to work on import command (commandeer) https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/2730
Josh: not much to add. Hoping to get eyes on a PR: sourcing dependency charts from OCI https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7613
Matt Butcher: Presenting to ToC on Tuesday
Discussion
Release 3.1.2? [Farina]
Will cut later today [probably by Farina] unless someone else get there first
Vision for HelmHub: how to choose the right chart for a product? [Marc]
The stable and incubator Helm chart repositories, currently listed on the Helm Hub, have begun a 1 year deprecation timeline. After 6 months they will be de-listed from the Hub (soon to be CNCF hub). See helm/charts > Status of the Project and Deprecation Timeline
The Helm Hub has a process for Adding distributed Helm repos, and the stable and incubator repos have a process for Deprecating a Chart once this is completed
Orgs and individuals can host distributed Helm repos however they wish, but if they want to use Helm-created tools (chart testing, releasing, etc) they can follow this example to use Helm Chart repo Actions: https://github.com/helm/charts-repo-actions-demo
There is a stub issue to help track migration, here https://github.com/helm/charts/issues/21103 (this will be fleshed out soon. While each deprecated chart README links to it's new home, this issue primarily to help the community see the migration at a glance)
We have engaged with a number of orgs who develop the apps to host charts for those apps (here is a working list that will be added to that github issue soon https://hackmd.io/VgK7_DUpS6CLLT4HSncmDg)
Helm.sh used to have a link to the sig-apps meeting recordings (not helm-specific) but now just points to https://github.com/helm/community/blob/master/communication.md#meetings - do we have a specific link or playlist we want to publish for the Helm dev call? These get recorded - but where do people watch them? [Bridget] / Posting Helm dev call videos [Marc]
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLVt9l4b66d5EY5Xs9OVJgvO5ss9WzrSY0
Fisher will migrate videos from Zoom to Youtube
Adam points out there‚Äôs a doc in keybase with the necessary info
Helm v2 utility library (https://github.com/maorfr/helm-plugin-utils/) request move to Helm org [Martin]
Discuss next week
Docs:
Improvement of library chart docs  https://github.com/helm/helm-www/pull/526  [Martin]
One review done by Matt Fisher. Can we get another core maintainer review?
Plugin shell-completion (which is in 3.2) https://github.com/helm/helm-www/pull/506 [Marc]
Fisher just approved and merged
Follow-up meeting on kube 1.16^ [Marc]
Adam will talk to Farina
Please include Martin and Marc
Should we split this file by decade? üòÅ Slow on a phone in the subway. [Marc]
Butcher: we could migrate past years to a markdown doc in github - Marc to open issue in community repo
Please take a critical look at https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7649 (resource adoption)! [Jacob]

Assignments for next meeting:
Moderator:  Matt Fisher
Notes:   Bridget
Issue triage: Matt Butcher / Bridget


March 5, 2020
Assignments for this meeting:
Moderator: Adam
Notes: Matt Farina
Issue triage:
Josh
Matt Farina

Announcements
none
Standup
Matt Fisher
Looking at PRs for upcoming milestones to see where we‚Äôre at
Looking at a PR that does `--force`
Josh D
Issue sherpa-ing
Did not complete Chart Museum release
Matt Butcher
Helm graduation tasks - shoutout to Michelle Noorali for her help on that
Helm Security Assurance case - to get CII Silver badge
Possibly not here next week if traveling
Matt Farina
Has been working on Helm graduation (less pressure due to KubeCon delay)
Helm is on a list with other projects for graduation consideration March 17th. (Hopefully security assurance is done by then.) Working on pitch deck for 17th. Helped with issue triage this week.
Martin
Library charts docs work
PR reviews
Scott
Chart testing/release work with Reinhard
Worked to move charts out of charts repo (e.g., working with nginx project maintainers to host the chart)
Paul
Both KubeApps and Helmfile now support Helm 3.
PR in to script craft release notes: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7636
Jacob
PR open around resource ownership. Make helm more intelligent on adopting resources. Needs work still.
Bridget
KubeCon EU work (intro to Helm maintainer session with Reinhard) is now put off
Adam
Worked on upgrading Kubernetes and depreciated K8s resources


Discussion
Kubernetes broken versioning [Adam] https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7219
We rely on the libraries kubectl uses - and that no longer supports some old versions
Farina: this problem is going to keep happening/get worse (because the API server/kubectl won‚Äôt work with older versions)
Farina: should we add Helm lint rules around this?
Fisher: yes; we should give a warning/message in these cases
Adam: we could build a binary outside of helm for conversion
[new meeting warranted]
[ran out of time]
Release 3.1.2? [Farina]
Vision for HelmHub: how to choose the right chart for a product? [Marc]
Helm.sh has a link to the sig-apps meetings - do we have a specific link or playlist we want to publish for the Helm dev call? [Bridget]
Issue triage: how‚Äôs it going? Trends? Thoughts? [Bridget]



Assignments for next meeting:
Moderator: Matt Farina
Notes:  Scott Rigby
Issue triage: Matt Fisher, Bridget Kromhout



Feb 27, 2020
Assignments for this meeting:
Moderator: Josh
Notes: Martin
Issue triage: Farina
Announcements
Fisher, Taylor, and Bridget are at an event today so won‚Äôt be on the call
Farina did a webinar on Helm security: https://www.cncf.io/webinars/helm-security-a-look-below-deck/
Standup
Marc:
Cobra is very open to Go completion
Adding support in Helm for Fish
Adam:
Reviewed some PRs
Pushed a PR for fixing a lib
Jacob:
Resource ownership issues
Matt Farina:
Issue sherpa this week
Lots of support questions
Martin:
Some PR reviews
Some bug triaging
Josh
Talking ChartMuseum bugs
One is: Storage cache issue
New release of CM on the way
Discussion
Contributing Guide? https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7585 [discussion suggested by Bridget, based on issue opened by Matt Farina]
How do we handle things at project level? All the bits and pieces.
Then handle things at code level? Maybe better code doc/GoDoc.
How do you dive in? How you get started?
How do you lower the barrier?
Farina to maybe drive this outside of the weekly meeting?
Gpg signing [mattfarina] https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7599
Best practice for handling kube 1.16 removed APIs? Helm v2 or Helm v3? [Marc]
Big issue we need to be able to handle
Vanilla `kubectl` can handle this, Helm needs to be able to diff against deprecated api to new api in cluster
Adama to investigate
CRDs not available during `dry-run`: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7449 [martin]
Do we document that this is a limitation?
Should this issue be marked as a feature?
Resource ownership refactor https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7649
Resource ownership does not guarantee exclusivity https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7699
Assignments for next meeting:
Moderator: Adam
Notes: Matt Farina
Issue triage:
Josh
Matt Farina

Feb 20, 2020
Assignments for this meeting:
Moderator: Adam
Notes: Bridget
Announcements - none!
Standup
Martin
Migration plugin:
Kube context/kubeconfig can be set on the fly now
Fun bug found about back-end storage (we weren‚Äôt catching setting that with args)
Possibly need to release 3.1.1 - error not being propagated up correctly
Fisher
PR reviews
Marc
Completion coded in go - posted to cobra
Working on k8s 1.16 at work - so dealing with challenges that are showing up in Helm issues -
Bridget
Working on Intro to Helm for KubeCon EU with Reinhard
Farina
Helm Hub - linting - github actions
Webinar on Helm security
Finding issues - putting issues into backlog
Jacob
Working on a bug to update resources to new API versions that exist in the cluster
May suggest a new ownership heuristic soon (opt-in with label or env variable) (Fisher: maybe as a lookup)
Adam
PR reviews/merges
XDG discussion with Farina
Discussion
Restore issue triage position? [mattfarina]
Assign specific person/persons to do triage for a specific week
Fisher: can we do assignments async on the maintainers list?
Bridget: we should document how to do the triaging
Farina: maintainers who aren‚Äôt core maintainers could also sign up
Martin: new core maintainers can learn how to triage by pairing
Farina: let‚Äôs start by reinstating the role and writing docs
Add a ‚ÄúNEWS‚Äù file to help with release notes? https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7581 [Marc]
Merge conflicts mean a single file is a challenge
Adam suggests an update to the github template
Fisher will link to another tool that helps.
What versions of Helm should be in docs? https://github.com/helm/helm-www/issues/497 [mattfarina]
Fisher: Ronan added version dropdown list between individual versions - 2.14 does not have a specific need to be on there
Adam: we‚Äôre constantly changing docs (not synced with specific versions)
Farina: k8s does it with each minor release but each release is a breaking change - let‚Äôs remove the process and just have ‚Äúhelm 2‚Äù and ‚Äúhelm 3‚Äù but in helm 3 docs, specify minor version when the change came in
Adam - include a section for anything that‚Äôs changed in the docs
Fisher: bring it back to Ronan
Farina: will continue convo with Ronan
Note: topics after this point were not discussed on Feb 20 and are being suggested for Feb 27
Should we cut 3.1.1? [martin]
Errors not being propagated from template/install/list
Contributing Guide? https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7585 [Bridget, based on issue opened by Matt Farina]
Gpg signing [mattfarina]
Porting of sql storage driver https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7635 [martin]
Namespaces and user access
Best practice for handling kube 1.16 removed APIs? Helm v2 or Helm v3? [Marc]
Assignments for next meeting:
Moderator: Josh
Notes: Martin
Issue triage: Farina

Feb 13, 2020
Assignments for this meeting:
Moderator: Martin Hickey
Notes: Matt Fisher
Announcements
Helm 3.1.0 released today: https://github.com/helm/helm/releases/tag/v3.1.0
Standup
Matt Farina
Cut the 3.1.0 release, issue triaging, bug fixes
Matt Fisher
Triaging PRs for the 3.1.0 release, issue triaging, PR reviews
Adam Reese
Nothing to report this week
Taylor Thomas
Post-render work, giving a talk next week
Scott Rigby
Working on some demos with Helm 3 and the new github actions
Might work on some demos for the new post-render feature
Got around to pinging people in SIG-PM regarding the ‚Äúkubernetes helm charts‚Äù repo naming suggestions
Matt Butcher
Kubecon stuff: working on the project maintainer‚Äôs booth for AMS
Taking a look at managed hooks a little bit to resurrect the architecture
Helm CNCF graduation is moving through the process
Action item: need to fill out the ADOPTERS.md file in helm/helm
Need to spend some time to fix the gpg signing key for past helm releases
Marc Khouzam
Working on PRs: namespaced memory drivers and pre-populating the memory driver for test infra
Jacob LeGrone
Hoping to compile an experience doc for his org
Martin Hickey
Looking into some bugs regarding passing along the kube context for the migration plugin
Facilitating discussion around contributing a new project to the helm org
Discussion
Scott Morgan: I‚Äôve had a PR sitting around for a while. Looking to find a core maintainer to move this around (7060)
Martin: how come the apiVersion had to be updated? `helm lint` should work with older chart APIs
Fisher: to resolve this, let‚Äôs add this to 3.2.0 so we can review it for the next release
Travis raines: https://github.com/helm/chart-testing/issues/202
Taylor: I‚Äôll have to dig into this one a little more. --wait can be a bit of a finicky thing and can‚Äôt tell what‚Äôs the issue immediately
https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6920 ‚Äúhelm upgrade --install‚Äù purposefully ignores installation errors. Why? [Marc]
Butcher: I‚Äôll review this offline
Should helm env show XDG paths? https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6892 Result of offline discussion between Farina and Adam? [Marc]
Farina: we shouldn‚Äôt be showing XDG-related environment variables. We should expose it as a Helm-specific variable in its place
Action item: farina to push a PR
Should Helm transform API versions? https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7575 [Farina]
Farina: the code has changed significantly since it was originally posted, so I can‚Äôt start a discussion on this. We‚Äôll have to revisit this PR before discussing.
Assignments for next meeting:
Moderator: Adam
Notes: Bridget

Feb 6, 2020
Announcements
Sessions scheduled for KubeCon EU (Bridget, credit to Karen Chu):
Intro: https://sched.co/Zx1Z
Deep Dive: https://sched.co/Zx4K

Standup
Farina
Triaging issue queue & pull requests
Adding items to 3.1.0 at this point
Looking at translations for the website right now
Helm hub growing
Marc
Posted a PR for memory driver to support namespaces - wants to preload releases in memory driver
Autocompletion for plugins
Adam
Catching up - getting back into Helm
Martin
Fix around lockfiles
In Ghent for config mgmt camp to speak about Helm with Taylor
Fisher
Helm website changes around updating helm commands in the docs
Working with Ronan to have good fallbacks for deprecated commands
High-level items & focus on 3.1
Taylor
Config mgmt camp with Martin - worked up good advanced helm demos
Working on post-render
Working on devopsdays Guad. talk (in Spanish!) about Helm
Butcher
Working on TOC review docs for graduation - researching ‚Äúsecurity assurance‚Äù cases & markdown doc with list of companies using Helm
Triaging issues/reviewing PRs - kudos to Martin on a tricky one!
Bridget
KubeCon EU talks, yay!

Discussion
When should we cut the 3.1.0 RC? (Farina, Bridget)
RC 3.1 tomorrow (Feb 7) - Farina willing to cut the release
Release 3.1: tentatively, Feb 13
RC 3.2 March 11, release March 18
One last sync up on post render [Taylor]
Farina considered this to be for one-off scripts and trying to understand use case
Martin: this capability has some inherent risks - perhaps we should document more than restrict
Farina wants a good pattern for this; Taylor is going to comment/explain future enchancements.
What should we do with https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6794? [Taylor]
Namespace mechanism is more declarative than before - but might be okay? [Taylor]
Farina: you‚Äôre moving namespace choices from one role to another with this change
Fisher: The role conflicts aren‚Äôt fixed by this PR - the lookup functionality is the same.
Farina suggesting an opt-in flag for auto-creation
Adam: it was a much-desired feature to limit releases to a namespace
Should helm-plugin-utils (https://github.com/maorfr/helm-plugin-utils) be moved to Helm org? [Maor/Martin]
Fisher: is this a Helm2-only plugin? If so we‚Äôd want that to be clear
Farina: there is no license on this repo yet
Should helm env show XDG paths? https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6892 [Marc]
Marc: XDG paths get default values when no set, which are hard to discern
Farina: debugging is difficult for XDG - this workaround would make our lives easier
Adam: XDG is unix/linux specific, so we probably want to call this ‚Äúconfig root directory‚Äù or some such
Farina: we have an issue about setting locations - the ability to use multiple path separators doesn‚Äôt currently work
Adam & Farina will follow up offline
Update on --name flag https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7345 [Marc]
Marc: Farina noted that many READMEs mention this
Fisher: core maintainers are making design decisions - we‚Äôll listen but not change based on one community member‚Äôs opinion
[note: meeting ran 45min so we could discuss items d, e, and f]
Assignments for next meeting:
Moderator: Martin Hickey
Notes: Matt Fisher

January 30, 2020
Announcements
Jan 29 release of 3.0.3 by Matt Farina: https://github.com/helm/helm/releases/tag/v3.0.3
Standup
Marc
Skip - internet connection flaky
Farina
3.0.3 release
Issue and PR triaging and reviewing
Butcher
Issue queue triaging
Martin
Working on issue where hash was created in helm v2 and now trying to validate with helm v3. Working on a fix with tests
Working on setting kubectx or kubecfg as part of migration (plugin)
Triaging and reviews
Taylor
Working through his backlog
Working on post-render feature with a target on 3.1.0
Created a repo of advanced Helm demos for an upcoming talk
Fisher
Issue triaging and PR queue. Trying to poke some PRs and make sure they have what they need to move on
Bridget
Learning about release process
Discussion
Let‚Äôs discuss a date for 3.1.0 (Farina)
Farina: Can we do this in mid-Feb?
Taylor: let‚Äôs make sure the k8s libraries are updated
Yes: Joe Langford did this
Fisher: let‚Äôs check a few regressions, but yes, this could work
Farina: by the call next week, we‚Äôll know when we can cut the RC
Fisher: will put some PRs for discussion in the helm dev channel
Prettify Updated time in helm ls [Martin]: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7024
Breaking change or not?
Helmsman (a 3rd party tool) is consuming the table and the time
Potential path forward:
Move to local timezone and remove the fraction of a second. It‚Äôs same format with difference in accuracy
See what this means for helmsman and parsing the information
Would be nice for ls and history to be consistent
Dependency digest differs between Helm 2 and 3: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7261 [Martin]
Need review and feedback if right approach
Fisher: consistent calculation?
Farina: there is a complication around dependencies with v1 vs v3 of library
Martin: some reverse engineering of hash
Farina will review
Update on --name flag https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7345 [Farina]
Farina: lots of charts use this - we can make it a hidden flag
Fisher: Helm 3‚Äôs refactoring of argument/flag parsing is less complex so this is more straightforward for the CLI - we still have to look at the SDK (might be okay)
Farina: we‚Äôre less worried about the SDK and more about copypasta
3tutorials
Taylor: let‚Äôs be careful of precedent
Fisher: let‚Äôs assert this is a case-by-case decision, and not a precedent
Farina: a valid case exists here, and they get a deprecation message. This isn‚Äôt a ‚Äúwe support it forever‚Äù scenario.
Assignments
Moderator:  Matt Fisher
Notes:  Bridget (unless someone else wants to!)

January 23, 2020
Announcements
Standup
Josh:
Shifting focus to make OCI distribution mature
Help get OCI out of experimental
Marc:
PR on bash completion in Go now merged
Porting support to Cobra
Adapting patch for helm plugins (bash completion)
Bridget:
Thinking about issues and PRs
Scott:
Connected with Farina on ingress-nginx project
Jaeger and Kong using new Helm actions
Farina asks: do we want a blog post about actions?
Scott thinks yes, now might be the time
Jacob:
New proposal for test:
Upgrade and downgrade
Issue on way
Martin:
Bug triaging, PR review, issues on Slack
Pushed some PRs with fixes for release checklist - brought v2 fixes in to v3
Fixed a bug in helm plugin utils project
Preparing talk with Taylor for config mgmt camp in Ghent
Farina:
Reviewing in
Helm Hub
Helm core
Discussion
Question about SA by default in `helm create`. Is it considered a good practice for every workload to run on its own SA even before RBAC resources are needed (PR where this was added), and if so, why? [Scott]:
Curious what practice why to create a SA everytime for deploy a chart
Farina said he reviewed this and he thought this pattern was being used commonly in the chart repo
No chart maintainers chimed in when Farina asked
Scott will raise an issue if it needs a change
Upgrade from failed releases: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5595 [Martin]
Several issues - releases can get into a state that can‚Äôt move on; people can be using deprecated APIs
We‚Äôll have this issue for open a while, for discussion
Jacob to add comment on how this can fail on first attempt to deploy
Reintroducing --name flag? https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7345 [Farina]
Martin: we need to be cautious about deprecation now that the (metaphorical) horse has bolted - the release is out.
Marc agrees with Martin‚Äôs opinion
Farina to add a comment to the PR that we have broken compatibility which is allowed. There is a way to work on this.
Could set a precedence of adding back in deprecated items which is not a great idea
Community member would like to add Deb and RPM packages for Helm: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7003#issuecomment-577527262  [Martin]
Martin: Is this something we want? They‚Äôre talking about hosting somewhere - do we actively support this or remain neutral/they support+we link?
Farina: Hosting elsewhere could cause a trust issue depending on who - we‚Äôd want to be clear that it‚Äôs a third party
Martin: choice is between running it ourselves and pointing to a third party
Farina: Point out to them that this is third party and he is totally responsible (unless we have maintainers who want to take it on with him)
3.0.3 and 3.1.0 releases? [Farina]
Bridget to shadow Farina to get 3.0.3 release out this coming week
Discuss next week a date for 3.1.0
Assignments
Moderator: Bridget
Notes: Farina (or Josh D)
January 16, 2020
Announcements
We did a CNCF webinar: https://www.cncf.io/webinars/a-conversation-about-helm-3/
Standup
Matt Fisher
CNCF webinar
Marc
Big patch (discussion topic to follow)
Discussing with Fisher about working with memory driver
Hoping to pre-load it with something (but doesn‚Äôt handle namespaces - worried about API compat)
We can add but cannot alter methods
Butcher thinks this is an oversight/bug
Matt Butcher
Webinar
Working on getting us closer to graduation
Matt Farina
Mostly reviews & triaging - Helm & Helm Hub
Bridget
Focused right now on content for the documentation
Webinar
Martin
Linux on s390x
Deprecated APIs (for discussion)
Failed deployments - can we help? Make announcements?
[something I missed which people love]
PR review
Jacob
All good!
Taylor Thomas
Webinar
Postrender
Feedback to address from community members
Working on talks for configmgmt camp and devopsdays Guadalajara
Ping him if you need him on specific PRs
Discussion
Auto-completion re-written in Go https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7323 [Matt Farina]
Moving it to Go lets us remove kubectl as a dependency
Request: please take a look/review this - it‚Äôs a big change
Fisher will be taking a look & put it on the 3.1 milestone
What should be done about the version on master? "unreleased" is currently not being added [Marc]
Marc was unsure how to post a version to show something would be off master - like ‚Äú3.0 unreleased‚Äù like it used to.
Fisher explains he & Adam refactored the internal version packaging so the stable release would not have ‚Äúunreleased‚Äù hardcoded
Fisher: In the makefile there‚Äôs a way to specify ‚Äúunreleased‚Äù when not being built from a tag - we should add that (back).
Action item for Fisher: open an issue explaining the problem and suggested solution
Handle CRD ingress resources https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/5574 [Matt Farina provided feedback]
Farina commented on this last May but uncertain why it‚Äôs on this list today
Martin added it today, to see if we can give a more complete answer now
Farina says we need more eyes on work that will affect CRDs - they‚Äôre still challenging
community charts Helm 3 backwards compatibility is complete (to the best of our knowledge). Does anyone know of other issues that have since come up that aren't listed here? https://github.com/helm/charts/issues/19008 [Scott]
Fisher: that is a pretty comprehensive issue list
Hook up Linux s390x as CI platform: https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7096 [Martin]
Submitter was asking about hooking a particular test into our CI pipeline
Farina mentions github actions and ‚Äúself-hosted runners‚Äù as an option
Martin wonders if we _want_ this to be automated
Fisher points out that the ARM architecture testing was hosted by a third-party community project (without official support) - could we have the community members who are interested in s390x do the testing?
Martin mentions that we aren‚Äôt automatically running other platforms‚Äô tests either.
Fisher: the same argument can be made for PPC arch
Butcher: the problem with new architectures: we cannot guarantee reliability on archs that the core team can‚Äôt access
Farina: so, we document to avoid confusion
K8s 1.16 and deprecated APIs: https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7219 [Martin]
Martin: This is going to be a big issue for people in production
A community member might work on a plugin for this (like the helm 2to3 plugin)
This is going to be messy - there‚Äôs no clean delineation
Fisher: other issues like migration of one chart from an older to newer api version - k8s upgrades objects from 1.15 to 1.16, so making it easier for release objects would be good
Farina: other issues are coming - helm upgrade *should* allow All The Things to work (if we can find a way)
Bridget: can we recommend replace instead of upgrade?
Fisher: we should look at the k8s strategy for API version upgrades - this is going to happen with ingress and more
Martin: we‚Äôll keep an eye on this
Assignments
Moderator: Farina
Notes: Martin

January 9, 2020
Announcements
CNCF webinar on Helm 3 w/ maintainers next Tuesday (Jan. 14)
https://www.cncf.io/webinars/a-conversation-about-helm-3/
Standup
Marc
Cobra help text on stderr has been reverted to stdout
What is the ‚Äúneeds pick‚Äù process?
Fisher: release triaging for next patch release, tracking what‚Äôs been cherry-picked into patch branch
Taylor:
Step 1 -> Add to correct milestone.
Step 2 -> Add the ‚Äúneeds pick‚Äù label to the PR
Working on shell completion
Taylor
Post-render PR tidying, getting feedback addressed
Josh
Closed a few chartmuseum bugs
Matt Butcher
PR - making sure we don't use old directories.
Discovery client: make sure last set of fixes work
If you had stale API endpoint declared, it failed to initialized, causing chart rendering to fail
Martin
PR reviews, looking at defects
Looking at Taylor‚Äôs proposal
Scott
In a large room
Helm actions work, working with orgs to move charts from community repo to use their own, using action when possible
Jacob
Helm rollout logs, adding more watchers for readiness. Getting more logs to the end user without having to use kubectl
Bridget
Helm 101 content for upcoming workshops, getting it into a repo for anybody to run
Matt Fisher
Panel next week Tuesday w/ other maintainers
https://www.cncf.io/webinars/a-conversation-about-helm-3/
PR reviewing
Feedback on issue queue, making sure things are triaged
Figuring out what's the story w/ 2.16.2 and 3.0.3, as well as 3.1.0 release


Discussion
https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/6752 needs some reviews [Taylor]
We should discuss its behavior with `helm template`
Butcher: the right thing to do is to throw errors vs. default values
Taylor: are we ok w/ this?
FIsher: curious if this solves anyones issues
Taylor: maybe post-render is the better option
Martin: we may not want this capability
Taylor: this feels like --wait - took 2 years to make it work properly, so we should be cautious
Bridget: lets not surprise people in unpleasant ways
https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7260 [Taylor]
Updates on this proposal
Need to decide on how long we should leave open for comment
Fisher: Is there a precedent in other orgs (python) for long features left open for discussion?
Post-render hooks - the ability to add in extra resources after the fact
Bridget: ‚Äúwe are putting the burden of repeatability on the end user to ensure they are using the correct post-renderer every time‚Äù is this going to be okay given sufficient docs?
Taylor: will probably leave open for 2 weeks
https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7320 [Taylor]
When migrating from 2 to 3, when moving CRDs to crd/ directory, their CRDs will be deleted.
We‚Äôve always said (in docs etc.) we will not delete CRDs
Taylor: rather user angry over not working, vs. things being deleted w/out their knowledge
Auto-completion re-written in Go https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7323
Kubernetes nginx-ingress chart [Scott]
What should be done about the version on master? "unreleased" is currently not being added [Marc]
Assignments
Moderator: taylor
Notes: Bridget

January 2, 2020
Cancelled for the holidays
